For decades, China has used unfair trade practices to undermine American jobs and innovation. While the United States Trade Representative’s (USTR) Section 301 investigation did not address all the threats unfair Chinese trade practices pose to the U.S., it did identify several serious concerns faced by American workers and businesses. As you approach the final weeks of negotiations with China, we urge you to insist that the deal make substantial, verifiable, and enforceable progress to address the myriad threats identified in USTR’s investigation.

Any acceptable agreement must, at a minimum, commit China to cease the predatory practices identified in the Section 301 investigation. As you noted in your March 22, 2018 Presidential Memorandum, the investigation found four main methods by which China attempts to coerce or steal U.S. intellectual property.[1] First, China uses investment restrictions and licensing procedures to require or pressure technology transfer. Second, China imposes restrictions and intervenes in U.S. firms’ investment and activities, often leading to technology licensing terms that unfairly favor Chinese firms. Third, China directs and facilitates the acquisition of U.S. companies and assets to obtain cutting-edge American technology. And fourth, China orchestrates state-sponsored cyber-theft to gain access to critical U.S. intellectual property. Your negotiations should seek to extract meaningful commitments from China on each of these elements and end the threats that these policies pose to the U.S. economy and national security.

Furthermore, a satisfactory agreement must include a clear and transparent monitoring and enforcement mechanism that allows the United States to hold China accountable. USTR’s Section 301 Report found that despite at least eight previous commitments by China to not use technology transfer as a condition for market access, “China’s technology transfer regime continues, notwithstanding repeated bilateral commitments and government statements.”[2] There is no reason to expect that this time will be different. The only way to hold the Chinese government to its word is to lay out clear metrics by which we can judge compliance.

For too long, China has used the predatory practices described in USTR’s Section 301 Report to undermine American jobs and innovation. Ending those practices is therefore a critical step towards reversing the damage such policies have had on the U.S. economy and restoring balance to the U.S.-China trade relationship. We hope that you will use these final weeks of negotiations to achieve a deal that makes substantial, verifiable, and enforceable progress to address these concerns.

The world is gathered in Bonn, Germany this week to review progress under the Paris Climate Change Agreement. Every nation has signed the agreement except one, the United States. We used to lead the world against climate change; now we debate whether it is even real.

How did this happen?

In short, Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission gave a handful of ultra-rich individuals the power to warp the politics around climate change. For Republicans, simply uttering the phrase now means millions in Super PAC attack ads. For Democrats, the flood of money has helped portray us as job killers fundamentally out of touch with most Americans.

More:The Trump tide is ebbing. How low will it go?

More:Obamacare verdict is in, but will Trump let GOP scrap repeal? Andy Slavitt

At times, we play into this caricature. Our passion to address climate change often leads us to positions that alienate potential allies. Our donors draw red lines for candidates that fail to account for economic realities beyond the coasts. All the while, the impasse persists.

To move forward, we need a more inclusive and thoughtful conversation. We should recognize that many communities now rely on energy production for their economic lifeblood. It is not enough to call for less coal or oil without having meaningful work to replace lost jobs. For someone who earned $80,000 in the energy sector, working in fast food or attending a failed job training program offers little solace. Pretending otherwise leads many Americans to conclude that Democrats don’t understand their challenges, or even worse, that we don’t care. 

Similarly, when Democrats oppose natural gas, we fail to appreciate both its importance to small town economies and its pivotal role in reducing coal production. The transition to clean energy will not happen overnight. Saying no to responsible production of natural gas — which emits half the carbon of the dirtiest coal and is the cleanest fossil fuel — surrenders progress for purity.

We also need to connect climate change to everyday lives. Concern about melting ice caps and endangered species is justified, but it has little resonance beyond our cities and coasts. On the other hand, every farmer and rancher in Colorado understands that persistent droughts and wildfires directly threaten their business and way of life. Likewise, many in Colorado know that warming temperatures endanger our skiing, fly fishing and outdoor recreation.

If we ignore these economic realities in our climate debate, we will struggle to break the gridlock in Washington.

Consider what happened in 2015. That year, President Obama announced the Clean Power Plan to slash America’s carbon emissionsto 32% below 2005 levels by 2030. Instead of rallying behind this effort, many activists made the Keystone Pipeline their cause. According to data from the Environmental Protection Agency, stopping the pipeline would have reduced our emissions by less than 1%. When Democrats opposed the pipeline, union workers across Colorado saw it as a direct rebuke. For them, pipefitting had become a source of steady work after factories had long shuttered and left.

Imagine if, instead of opposing the Keystone Pipeline, we had included it within a bipartisan deal to secure the Clean Power Plan or other meaningful steps to reduce our carbon emissions.

Unfortunately, we now find ourselves with Donald Trump as president, the Clean Power Plan canceled, and the Keystone Pipeline greenlighted. We are back to square one.

The threat of climate change is grave and growing. The overwhelming scientific consensus calls on us to act. Though most Republicans have cynically withdrawn from this debate, Democrats still have to win it. To break the impasse, we have to learn from our mistakes. That means reaching the small towns, farmers, ranchers and workers who see the dangers of climate change, but who have tuned out. It means choosing arguments that broaden our coalition instead of shrink it.

In Washington, it can be easy to mistake bold words with bold actions. In reality, one rarely leads to the other. Real solutions come from acknowledging different interests, agreeing on hard truths, and building a durable consensus to move forward.

What’s the point of being a progressive if we can’t make progress?