The Chinese Communist Party’s repressive treatment of the Uighurs and other minorities, and growing pressure on Hong Kong, are symptomatic of a broader, and intensifying, “systems” competition. Beijing seems committed to consolidating and legitimizing authoritarian capitalism as an alternative to the democratic capitalism embraced by the United States and its closest allies and partners. 

Where necessary and feasible, we should seek cooperation with Beijing, such as in addressing climate disruption, maintaining strategic stability, combatting terrorism, and managing conflict through international peacekeeping. But the United States must defend our fundamental values, core interests, and critical alliances, and accept that this will often entail friction with China.

For too long we have underestimated China’s ambitions, while overestimating our ability to shape them. We must instead focus on repairing our democracy and reinvesting in our economic and technological competitiveness; inoculating open societies from corrupt, coercive, or covert political interference; strengthening, rather than straining, our alliances in order to put collective pressure on China for unfair economic practices, human rights abuses, and intimidation of countries that stand up for their sovereignty; realigning defense and other national security investments to reflect China’s military modernization and full-spectrum statecraft; and reducing vulnerabilities from economic interdependence by disentangling the most sensitive sectors of our economies--in an orderly, not chaotic, fashion--and ensuring that American and allied resources and technologies do not underpin authoritarian oppression and surveillance. 

I have been clear: walking away from the JCPOA was a strategic mistake. We didn’t develop the deal as a favor to Iran; we did it because it was in our national security interest. The deal represented a detailed and verifiable arrangement that permanently prohibited Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. And the JCPOA was effective: Iran was upholding its commitments, as confirmed repeatedly by international inspectors and our own intelligence community, when President Trump withdrew from it. Walking away from the JCPOA also cost us credibility and the trust of our partners, hindering our ability to work with allies to solve difficult collective challenges. 

We should have no illusions about the reality that Iran poses challenges to U.S. interests beyond its nuclear program: its ballistic missile program, malign behavior in the region, threats to our ally Israel, and human rights abuses. But having the JCPOA in place created a foundation from which we could begin addressing those concerns, all of which will be even more intractable if we lack a mechanism to verifiably and permanently prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. 

If Iran resumes implementing its commitments, then I would rejoin. But I would take the agreement as a floor, not a ceiling. I would revive P5+1 diplomacy and direct US-Iran dialogue at the appropriate levels and would want to pursue follow-on agreements that extend the timeframe of certain nuclear restrictions, cover Iran’s missile program, and address its role in regional conflicts, all in return for targeted sanctions relief. 

We have to accept that denuclearization will not happen overnight and will require a sustained, step-by-step approach spanning a significant number of years. It is unrealistic to think that the North Koreans will get rid of their entire nuclear weapons stockpile at the outset. I believe the most realistic way to get there is a framework for complete, verifiable denuclearization and peace on the Korean Peninsula that is comprehensive in scope, with steps on both fronts implemented step-by-step and in tandem. 

I would support an initial freeze agreement that would have North Korea cease production of fissile material and end nuclear and missile testing, all verified by international inspectors, in exchange for targeted sanctions relief, which could be reversed if the North Koreans did not uphold their end of the bargain. After this initial deal, we would need to proceed toward dismantling facilities and then the weapons themselves.  This could be accompanied with corresponding measures on sanctions relief, as well as substantive progress on building a lasting peace regime and normalizing relations. It has to be a two-way street. The only way to achieve complete denuclearization is to recognize that we have to address the core issues of peace and security on the Korean Peninsula in tandem, and that will require concrete steps on both sides. 

Russian aggression against Ukraine is an attack on the agreed principles and rules of European and global order that protect global citizens beyond Ukraine, including Americans.  Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity is protected by the UN Charter and European security agreements, which the Russian Federation has signed and is obligated to respect.  The OSCE mission and Minsk agreement both obligate Russia to resolve the conflict peacefully with Ukraine. We must keep tough, targeted, and effective economic and financial sanctions on Russia as long as it continues to assault Ukrainian territory and citizens, and continues to illegally occupy Ukrainian territory in the Donbas and Crimea.

But countering Russian aggression  also means supporting Ukraine’s independence and ability to make and implement sovereign foreign policy decisions by supporting Ukraine’s political, economic, and defense capabilities. Although Ukraine is not a formal treaty ally, the U.S. should be willing to help Ukraine develop a modern and capable defense force to defend its citizens, including advice, education, training, and willingness to consider commercial sales of weapons appropriate to the situation.   While the US must not exacerbate instability or conflict, we should not shy from responsible defense assistance to a democracy in the heart of Europe that is under assault because its citizens have chosen a democratic European path.

I’ve seen first-hand the costs of our long conflict in Afghanistan. It’s time to end this endless war. The only question is do we do it well or poorly. 

Our objective has remained the same throughout this conflict: ensuring that Afghanistan never again becomes a base for terrorist attacks against the US or its allies.  A negotiated peace agreement in which we maintain a relevant special operations/intelligence presence but bring home our ground troops is the best way to ensure that Afghanistan never again becomes a base for terrorist attacks against the United States or its allies. Using our current presence to help lock in a peace agreement should be part of that strategy.  

The United States must halt military support for the Saudi-led campaign in Yemen. The brutal war has brought the country to the verge of famine and killed tens of thousands of civilians. As president, I would suspend all arms sales to Saudi Arabia that could be used in the Yemen war, but also cut off the spare parts and maintenance for equipment needed to prolong that war. Ending our own involvement in the war in Yemen is just a first step. We need to increase our diplomatic efforts and work with our allies to end the conflict itself, which has generated the world’s worst humanitarian crisis and helped to spread extremism. 

We must also reset our relationship with Saudi Arabia, so that our interests and values drive the relationship -- not the other way around. Our strongest alliances must be founded upon shared commitments to international law and human rights. We must be pragmatic about intelligence-sharing: totally stopping such cooperation could hinder our ability to detect and thwart threats emanating from Yemen, including from the regional al-Qaeda affiliate.   But the Saudi government should not get a pass on the state-sponsored murder of an American resident abroad, nor should they be able to buy our silence on human rights abuses -- including killing civilians in Yemen and supporting extremist ideology across the Muslim world -- through purchases of US weapons.

Yes, I do support a two-state solution. The US alliance with Israel and support for Israel’s security have long been fundamental tenets of US national security policy, and they will remain so if I am elected President. But this is not a zero-sum game. The security of Israel and the aspirations of the Palestinian people are fundamentally interlinked. To visit the West Bank and Gaza is to understand the fundamental need for a two-state solution which addresses the economic, security and moral rights of both Israelis and of the Palestinians who live there.

I have clearly and strongly stated my support for the security of Israel, and I have also said that I disagree with policies being carried out by the current Israeli administration. This includes overreach in the West Bank and Gaza and short-sighted focus on military responses. The humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza has gone on far too long and provides a ripe environment for the very extremist violence that threatens Israel.

The United States needs to put its arm around the shoulder of its ally, Israel, and help it to develop policies that will work towards the economic and security benefit of both Israel and the Palestinians. Both Israeli and Palestinian citizens should be able to enjoy the freedom to go about their daily lives without fear of rocket attacks or other violence, and to work to achieve economic well-being for their families. A two-state solution that achieves legitimate Palestinian aspirations and meets Israel’s security needs remains the only viable way forward.

Maduro is responsible for the humanitarian crisis that has seen more than four million Venezuelans flee their country. Endemic corruption, pervasive criminality among top officials, and systematic human rights abuses all reinforce the fact that the Maduro regime has lost the legitimacy to govern, and I stand behind Juan Guaidó as the rightful interim president. Our end state in Venezuela is a peaceful transfer of power to an interim constitutional government followed by free and fair elections. Because the refugee situation and Venezuela's imploding economy are impacting the entire hemisphere, the U.S. government should respond in concert with our regional allies, who are shouldering the heavy burden of a large Venezuelan diaspora.  Together, we also need to address the Russian, Chinese and Cuban interference now complicating an effective transition.

In this vein, I support recent efforts to negotiate a settlement between the regime and Guaidó; such talks can be the best route to a managed transition.  I would also continue to apply targeted sanctions against regime officials -- but broad economic sanctions, such as those pursued by the Trump administration, run the risk of hurting innocent Venezuelans already face crippling food and medicine shortages and enabling the Maduro regime to promote the false narrative that the U.S. is responsible for the country's misery. I also would support extending Temporary Protected Status to Venezuelans currently residing in the United States until the crisis is resolved. 

Africa is not a country, it is a diverse and multifaceted continent of states with rich and proud histories, great successes, and significant and varied challenges.  On that continent, the winds of change are sweeping aside old regimes and certitudes. In Algeria, a new generation has risen up against a sclerotic government. In Sudan, women have led a revolt against a criminal one. And in Ethiopia, we have seen what can look like when hope triumphs over hostility.

By 2025, nearly one-fifth of the world’s population will live in the nations of a rising Africa--60 percent of whose people are now under the age of 25. Our priorities should include cooperation on helping our African partners manage that population growth: accountable governance, climate change mitigation and conflict prevention. 

We must also prioritize building shared prosperity that can assist new generations in having a viable and productive future.  That continent now boasts some of the fastest-growing economies in the world, which have lifted millions out of poverty and into the global marketplace.  Sub-Saharan Africa represents one of the biggest opportunities for new markets for US goods and investment. And as African peoples demand greater accountability and transparency from their leaders, the United States must stand ready to put our values into action, to promote empowerment alongside economic engagement.  

I would not support the US joining the current CPTPP. It lacks critical trade provisions on labor, environment, and the digital economy, and does not align closely enough with the needs and interests of American workers. We must address failures in delivering on the social compact here at home. For too long, Washington sold trade deal after trade deal with the promise that a rising tide would lift all boats. It hasn’t — in part because it wasn’t accompanied by investment here at home — and Washington failed those left behind.

A lot of Americans just don’t trust the government to negotiate trade deals in their best interest. We need an honest national discussion about trade. Our work must begin at home. At the same time, we should not surrender the world’s fastest growing markets in Asia to other nations. It is where China wants to dominate and is buying influence through their Belt and Road initiative. China is negotiating broad new trade agreements with their neighbors that favor China’s economy and workers. These agreements also enshrine non-democratic principles at the expense of the US and free people. Sitting on the sidelines is a losing proposition for America.

We cannot just put up walls around our economy. We need to be setting the rules of the road for the future, so that strategic and economic competition with China happens on our terms.

The US needs to lead the way in the global exit of coal-fired power— a process already underway. First, as President, I will quadruple clean energy research and development in the US and enact additional policies to support the deployment of renewables, storage, carbon capture and energy efficiency in homes and building retrofits. Second, I would also convene local leaders from across the globe at a Pittsburgh Climate Summit to commit to decisive action within their communities and create local initiatives to deploy clean energy policy and technologies that will continue to drive down the price of clean energy and move on from coal. Third, the US will work through global institutions to reduce and end global fossil fuel subsidies, many of which have unfairly favored coal, starting at home. Finally, the US can leverage trade agreements to reduce the amount of coal funded through China's Belt and Road initiative.

After intense political debates in the years after WWII between isolationists and internationalists, I believe America’s greatest foreign policy accomplishment has been our leadership of global efforts to promote the values that animate our own and other great democracies, to the benefit of the security and freedom of our people. From the design, implementation and success of the Marshall Plan to the fall of the Soviet Union, our leadership – until recently – has been based not only on our power but also on the ideals of America and our allies. 

Our biggest mistake has been the failure to use our leadership more vigorously in key areas of international change: to bend the benefits of globalization more equitably to improving the everyday lives of poor and middle-class citizens, especially women and minorities, in our own and other nations; to combat climate change and nuclear proliferation; and to stand strong against the recent surge of anti-democratic forces around the world.  I often think of how the resources used for unnecessary, prolonged wars that were not in our interest could have been used in addressing these issues to the benefit of our own people and the entire world.

When you come from a family of educators like I do, you know the power of learning to open new horizons and opportunities. As our world and our economy change, access to ongoing higher education is increasingly necessary to thrive. But for too many Americans that opportunity is out of reach.

For many Americans, college has been a pathway to the middle class. Yet today, it costs students and their families more than ever. The federal Pell Grant used to cover nearly 80 percent of the cost of tuition, fees, and room and board; today, it covers just 29 percent.1 The average graduate with a bachelor’s degree starts their life with around $30,000 of debt.2

quotation marks

As our world and our economy change, access to ongoing higher education is increasingly necessary to thrive. But for too many Americans that opportunity is out of reach.
And more than 40 percent of students don’t even make it to graduation.3 Students who drop out with debt but no degree are significantly more likely to struggle with loan repayment, and may even default.4

In America, opportunities for success shouldn’t be limited to those with a college degree. As important as it is to make college affordable, it must also be possible to land a well-paying job and launch a career without going to college. As our labor market evolves, well-paying jobs and careers requiring only a high school diploma are harder to find. We need to ensure that workers have access to the training and education that will make them—and our economy—successful.
We need to ensure that workers have access to the training and education that will make them—and our economy—successful.
Our ability to compete internationally, to innovate and grow our economy, to expand our middle class, and to make sure children have a better life than their parents will be shaped by the education we make available to Americans. This plan will:
When you come from a family of educators like I do, you know the power of learning to open new horizons and opportunities. As our world and our economy change, access to ongoing higher education is also increasingly necessary to thrive. For too many Americans, however, that opportunity is out of reach.
A college degree has long been a ticket to well-paying jobs and fulfilling post-graduate opportunities—and for many Americans, a pathway to the middle class. But today, college costs students and their families more than ever before. States have cut investments in higher education and federal student aid doesn’t stretch as far as it once did. The federal Pell Grant used to cover nearly 80 percent of the cost of tuition, fees, and room and board; today, it covers just 29 percent. The average graduate with a bachelor’s degree starts their life with around $30,000 in debt.
And more than 40 percent of students don’t even make it to graduation. Students who drop out with debt but no degree are significantly more likely to struggle with loan repayment, and may even default. Others graduate from predatory, for-profit colleges that take students’ tuition money without providing them a quality education.
But opportunities for success shouldn’t be limited to those with a college degree in America. As important as it is to make college affordable, it must also be possible to land a well-paying job and launch a career for those Americans who do not go to college. As our labor market changes and evolves, well-paying jobs and careers requiring only a high school diploma are harder to find. With systematic reductions in worker power and significant cuts to workforce investment and technical education, Americans have been left behind. We need to ensure that workers have access to the training and education that will make them—and our economy—successful. Having more affordable and high-quality options to get there, inside and outside of traditional college, is critical.
Our ability to compete internationally, to innovate and grow our economy, to sustain and expand our middle class, and to make sure children have a better life than their parents, will be shaped in many ways by the education we make available to Americans—whether they choose to go to college or not Last winter, after my father entered a hospitalization from which he would never emerge, my mother and
I sat down with a social worker to talk about options for the long-term care we thought he might need. I’ll always remember the social worker patiently explaining to my mom that her best option to cover Dad’scare might be for our family to spend everything that we had until we were asset-poor enough to qualify for Medicaid. I remember thinking, “Is that how this works in America?”
It is a fact of life that we and the people we love grow older. With aging can come deep satisfaction and joy--the chance to slow down, or travel, or play with a new grandchild. It can also bring hardship, as a worker frets whether she has sufficient savings to retire or a husband weighs whether to move his spouse to a nursing home.
More and more Americans are confronting the challenges of aging, as Baby Boomers continue to approach retirement. After full careers, many Americans continue working longer because they can’t afford to retire. For the first time in our nation’s history, there will be more older adults than children.1 In 2020, half of adults who reach 65 will require long-term care.2 By 2026, we will require 7.8 million new care jobs. At the same time, more and more Americans are becoming eligible for Social Security—even as the Trump Administration has attempted to undermine Americans’ retirement by cutting billions of dollars from Social Security over the next decade.3 Politicians in Washington have known this crisis was intensifying for years. And for years, they have failed to address it. It is time for a new approach.
I am determined to usher in a new era for older Americans, one that empowers them to age and retire with dignity. One that equips them and their families with a sense of security over their futures, allowing them to see it as a time filled with possibility.
In this new era, we will uphold that unshakable promise that every American should be able to maintain a decent standard of living when they retire. We will honor and support our nation’s caregivers—who are primarily women and disproportionately Black, Latino, and immigrant—and treat them with the respect they deserve. In a historic effort, we will fundamentally transform our long-term care system by establishing a new, historic long-term care program, Long-Term Care America, which will provide eligible seniors a benefit of $90 a day for as long as they need it.
My plan also ensures that older Americans have freedom in retirement through greater choice. We will protect the ability of older Americans to choose the health plan that works best for them by preserving
Medicare Advantage, a private Medicare plan that over 20 million older Americans selected for this year; eliminate roadblocks to aging in place so seniors can age at home or in their community if they prefer; and institute a Public Option 401(k) so that all workers have the opportunity to save for and achieve financial security in retirement
In America today, it is harder and harder not just to get ahead, but to hold on to what we’ve got. The stock market may be up, but millions of Americans see their paychecks stay flat even as the cost of health care, housing, and college are rising.1 For too many workers, one job is not enough. Working and middle class families simply can’t keep up.
In my mom and dad’s generation, nine out of every ten kids did better than their parents. But for Americans of my generation, the odds are no better than a coin flip.2 Working family incomes have stagnated almost my entire life.3 Meanwhile, most of our economic growth goes to a smaller and smaller slice of the wealthiest Americans–a dangerous level of inequality that not only threatens our economic security but tears at the very fabric of our democracy and our society.4
We need an economy that delivers more. Families across the country need to see higher incomes, lower costs, and a brighter future for our children. In the United States of America, economic gains should be shared by everyone and everyone should have a fair shot at real opportunity.
The status quo with companies like Facebook and Uber setting the rules and government sitting on the sidelines must change. Our government can, and should, play a role in setting a level playing field that gives all Americans a chance to succeed. That doesn’t mean government taking over the economy. But government does need to be a vigorous presence in ensuring that our economy actually works for all. That means strict enforcement of new and existing labor laws to rebalance power toward workers and ensurethat new industries and technologies fuel growth, not more inequality. That means public investments that lead to thriving workers, children, and families. And that means providing Americans with low-cost, high-quality public options in health and education that spurs competition and drives the private sector to improve.
As president, I will measure success not just by the size of the stock market or gross domestic product, but by whether working and middle class families are succeeding. I will use publiccenforcement, public investments, and public options to make the economy deliver for all Americans, not just those at the top
The American people are facing one of the greatest tests in our history. Climate catastrophe is on the horizon, and history will judge us for how we rose to meet this challenge in our time. We have seen this problem evolve from a theory to a prediction to a reality to, now, an emergency. It affects Americans today, impacting not only our coasts but also farmers, small businesses, homes, and communities across our country.
Communities from Pacific Junction, Iowa to Conway, South Carolina are feeling the effects of extreme weather and changing rainfall patterns. In South Bend, I have had to order the activation of the emergency operations center for 1,000-year and 500-year floods that came less than two years apart. As temperatures and sea levels rise, so does the cost of food and flood insurance. New health issues from heat, air pollution, and the spread of infectious diseases are growing. From hurricanes devastating Puerto Rico to fires ravaging the Amazon, climate change is affecting everyone, everywhere. It is the security challenge of our time, and a wall on our southern border won’t help.
We’re running out of time. Experts tell us that we have 10 years to get on the right path, or global warming will reach catastrophic levels by 2050. For too long, Washington has chosen denial and obstruction. But the timeline that compels us to act isn’t set by Congress—it’s being dictated by science. We must channel all of our energies into a national project—one that unifies every
American, from big cities to rural communities, around this urgent threat and seizes the tremendous opportunity of a new era of climate action. As big as this crisis is, our ideas and aspirations are big enough to meet it. When I am President, we will.
Implementing this vision means tapping into the patriotism of every American and every sector of our economy. It means unleashing the power not only of the federal government, but also of cities, towns, and communities. It means tapping into the potential of rural communities to become part of the solution. It means helping industries that have provided so many families a livelihood to transform into clean energy leaders and be ready to provide for generations to come.
My goal is to make our society a net-zero emissions one no later than 2050, working aggressively toward immediate targets to be met in the years ahead. We will build a resilient nation that can standup to the extreme weather and sea level rise we are already facing, and lead the world in bringing our international partners and local leaders together to solve this crisis. When we tell our children and grandchildren about what we did in this moment, we must tell them that we worked together, took bold action, and met the greatest challenge of our time—for ourselves and for them.
My plan has three pillars:
Build a Clean Economy. The U.S. must invest in talent and enterprise here at home to unlock new technology and bring together partners to reduce emissions across the electricity, transportation, industrial, and agricultural sectors. We must create clean energy jobs, strengthen our rural communities, and protect America’s natural resources. Our intention is to promote a clean and prosperous future for ourselves and our children and to prioritize justice and inclusion as we embrace these changes.
Invest in Resilience. We are already feeling the effects of climate change, whether it’s farmers affected by floods and shorter planting seasons or communities managing storm surges or devastating forest fires. Our plan makes our cities and states more resilient by prioritizing our communities and focusing on infrastructure and disaster preparedness.
Demonstrate Leadership. Combating climate change will require American leadership to bring our nation together and make the fight for a cleaner future a global priority. In doing so, we can also restore America’s badly damaged credibility by leading the world in rising to this challenge while practicing what we preach at home.
Enact a price on carbon and send rebates to Americans. My administration will work with Congress to pass an economy-wide price on carbon, which will automatically increase each year. Revenue will be rebated back to Americans, meaning low- and middle-class households will receive enough to be better off economically than they were before. We will assess a border adjustment tax on any imported goods not subject to a price on carbon where they were produced, which will help protect American industries.
We will also work through international organizations like the United Nations, G20, and World Trade Organization to press other nations to adopt a similar price on carbon.
We will quadruple federal clean energy R&D funding to $25 billion per year by 2025, investing more than $200 billion over 10 years. To achieve net-zero emissions by 2050, we need new technologies for advanced wind and solar and other new clean electricity, long-duration and seasonal storage, smart grid systems, advanced vehicle technologies, steel and cement manufacturing that can contain captured carbon, and direct air capture of greenhouse gases. The Departments of Energy and Defense invest only $6.1 billion per year in energy R&D., In contrast, China spends approximately $8 billion a year on energy and environmental R&D and is expected to increase spending. In today’s dollars, the Apollo program would cost $117 billion over fourteen years. We need to take this threat seriously and invest accordingly.
The American people have the appetite, creativity, and drive to combat climate change. Their government should support and fund these initiatives. As new industries are built, the entire economy will grow. We will support these efforts with innovative investment funds: American Clean Energy Bank. Building on the success of green banks in states, the American Clean Energy Bank will have $250 billion of initial capitalization. It will provide loans, grants, credit enhancements, and loan guarantees to finance clean energy technologies and energy efficiency, waste and water, and resilient infrastructure projects that create good local jobs, through which the bank can leverage up to six times more private-sector capital. Theseinvestments will target places where private capital is reluctant to go, and will fund innovative startup companies, particularly across the middle of the country. As part of the Walker-Lewis Initiative, this Bank will promote funding for members of under-resourced communities to ensure that they have access to clean energy technology and resilient infrastructure. The Bank will have regional hubs, co-located with our Regional Resilience Hubs, which will provide communities with financing and technical assistance and will ensure all projects funded will abide by critical labor and domestic content standards, notably Davis-Bacon and Buy America.
Global Investment Initiative. Today, the biggest investor in infrastructure around the world is China through its Belt and Road Initiative. If we’re going to fight the climate crisis, we need to ensure all nations are building clean energy and resilient infrastructure, which is why we will launch the Global Investment Initiative to build US developed technologies in developing nations around the world. This $250 billion fund will match with $250 billion in private investment over ten years to partner on clean energy and resilient infrastructure projects that use American technology and are built by American companies. This will harness the investments in American R&D to strengthen our economy and generate jobs at home, while simultaneously combating climate change around the globe.
American Cleantech Fund. This fund will be one of the largest investment funds in the U.S. dedicated to cleantech. It will be capitalized with $50 billion in seed funding to support dozens of demonstration projects of new technologies that are too risky for the private sector, to build first-of-a-kind technology at government facilities, and to ensure these are translated into full scale U.S. manufacturing.
Issue U.S. climate action bonds. We will create Climate Action Bonds to help pay for clean energy and resilience deployment projects. Like World War II-era war bonds, these climate bonds will enable every American to invest in climate action and feel that they own a piece of our future. These Series EE bonds will double in value over 20 years and will go to finance projects in the U.S.
When America was attacked on 9/11, we immediately said that we would never allow it to happen again. We declared that those attacks would change us for the better and we mobilized to action. Today, America is under attack from homegrown white nationalist terror — facilitated by an unchecked corporate gun lobby — and the response from too many of our leaders is still “thoughts and prayers.” After foreign terrorist attacks, airport travelers have to take off their shoes. After three mass shootings in a single week, Congress takes off for recess.
I was a junior in high school when the Columbine shooting took place. This week, as we mark the 7th anniversary of the shooting at the Oak Creek Sikh temple, a mall in El Paso where my grandmother used to take me as a teenager turned into the scene of yet another massacre. For my entire lifetime, after each mass shooting we’ve seen politicians in Washington condemn the loss of life and offer their condolences. They talk about change, but it remains easier to buy weapons of war than a bottle of beer. They condemn the acts of lone individuals, but are too embarrassed or evasive to confront the hateful ideology that spurs so many to act — because an unrestrained gun lobby and racial division serves so many of their political interests. We’ve traumatized an entire generation and are set to traumatize yet another.
Meanwhile, every day, one at a time, we continue to lose an average of 100 lives to gun violence — disproportionately in black and brown communities — all around the country, including in my hometown.
Enough.
Weapons like the one I carried in Afghanistan have no place on our streets or in our schools — least of all in the hands of white nationalists. I want to be able to look back on this moment and tell my children that we brought people together to deliver gun safety. I want my children to be able to go to the mall with their grandmother, or to school, or to the movies, without living in fear.
To meet this urgent national security crisis and secure our communities, the politics of cut-and-paste condemnation and inaction must give way to a new and different approach. One that speaks clearly about the problems we face, and is unafraid to put forth solutions that will actually meet those challenges. One that recognizes we must not only propose smart policy, but also build and sustain political power to ensure those ideas are enacted. One that understands that, yes, the best thing we can do to stop the rise of white nationalism and the pernicious influence of the NRA is to defeat their top enabler in Donald Trump. But we must also act before a new President takes office in 2021.
Policy Action
The United States is the only country in the developed world where this kind of gun violence happens routinely. We throw up our hands as though this was the result of some cosmic force, but these tragedies are the consequence of policy failures. It’s time to address those.
Dedicate $1 billion to prevent and combat radicalization and violent extremism:
The Trump Administration cut funding allocated to the Department of Homeland Security to combat white nationalism. We must do more than simply reinstate that funding — we must dedicate $1 billion to ensure that law enforcement across all agencies and all levels have sufficient resources to counter the growing tide of white nationalist violence.
Empower law enforcement — including the FBI, state and local authorities — with greater resources for preventing domestic terrorist attacks before they occur: More than 70% of international terrorism arrests occur before violence takes place. With domestic terrorism, the opposite is true: 72% of arrests occur after a violent act.
Increase the FBI’s domestic counterterrorism field staff and strengthen ties to state and local authorities, so that our law enforcement agencies can work together to prevent domestic terrorist attacks.
Expand our ability to track hate. We can’t combat what we can’t measure. We must pass the No Hate Act, the Durbin-Schneider Domestic Terrorism Prevention Act, and the Domestic Terrorism DATA Act. Restore federal funding for the Global Terrorism Database.
Reinvest in DHS’ ability to prevent and fight extremism, violence, and hate. The Trump administration slashed DHS funding and reduced its staff dedicated to countering violent extremism. As an intelligence officer in the United States military who specialized in counterterrorism, I’ve seen firsthand what a concerted, coordinated effort to fight terror can do and what it will take to fully confront this threat.
Pursue domestic white nationalists with international terrorism links. Empower the National Counterterrorism Center in the Office of the Director of National Intelligence to investigate international links to white nationalist violence. The FBI arrests international terrorist suspects through constant vigilance and it should do the same against violent white supremacist groups.
Address the link between gender-based violence and domestic terrorism. Training law enforcement on the connection between misogyny and violent extremism is crucial to prevention, as is funding community outreach and intervention programs focused on sexism.
Stop the spread of violent extremism online:
Work with social media and other online platforms to identify and limit the spread of hateful ideology. Social media companies and online platforms have a critical role to play in ensuring that their services are not used to facilitate and spread hate. Federal funding for tech innovation and training should be used to help improve the software tools that can identify and track far-right extremism, within the boundaries of internet companies’ terms of service and consistent with the First Amendment.
Name and shame online platforms and other companies that refuse to take steps to curb use by hate groups. Certain platforms like 8chan exist as an alternative space where right-wing and extremist ideology flourishes. These platforms should be regularly monitored by law enforcement.
Make sure guns don’t get into the wrong hands:
Make background checks universal and close the loopholes that allow dangerous individuals to acquire and keep guns. After each new mass shooting, it has become routine to learn that the perpetrator acquired their guns legally. Current federal law only requires licensed gun dealers to conduct background checks on gun sales, allowing too many people who are banned from having guns to acquire them anyway. This loophole and others that allow dangerous individuals to obtain guns have to be closed.
Institute universal background checks. The Senate should immediately pass universal background check legislation — including from all gun shows and unlicensed online sales — which was passed by the House of Representatives over 150 days ago.
Close the “boyfriend loophole.” We need to close loopholes that will reduce the number of intimate partner homicides, including extending laws to apply to dating partners in the same way that they treat partners who have lived together as spouses.
Close the “Charleston loophole.” Under federal law, if a federally-licensed gun dealer who has initiated a background check has not been notified within three business days that the sale would violate federal or state laws, the sale can go forward by default. We must close this deadly loophole and allow the FBI additional time to investigate potentially dangerous people. Until a background check is completed, gun sales must be prohibited from taking place.
Close the hate loophole. Hate and bigotry have motivated some of the deadliest mass shootings in our nation’s history. In too many cases, a firearm turns bigoted threats into deadly assaults. In recent years, the number of active hate groups in the U.S. has reached an all-time high. We must pass the Disarm Hate Act, which would prohibit people convicted of hate crimes from acquiring or possessing firearms.
Ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. In the two decades since Columbine, America has barely changed its national gun laws, besides letting an assault weapons ban expire. As a veteran, I know that military-grade weapons have no place in our neighborhoods. The same is true for high-capacity magazines, some of which can hold up to 100 rounds of ammunition and significantly increase a shooter’s ability to injure and kill large numbers of people quickly without needing to reload. We’ve already decided that certain weaponry — like tanks and rockets — are unacceptable in civilian hands. Congress should similarly reinstitute a federal assault weapons ban and ban magazines that hold more than 10 rounds of ammunition.
Support red flag laws that disarm domestic abusers. Red flag laws allow a judge to seize legally-owned guns if someone is determined to be an immediate threat to themselves or others. In many cases, people close to a mass shooter had observed clear warning signs of violence — such as stalking or abusing women — but were unable to act to keep the shooter from accessing weapons. Congress should pass a federal Extreme Risk Protection Order Act to allow for an intervention before there is carnage.
Establish a nationwide gun licensing system. Comprehensive background checks can be made more effective by also requiring the gun buyer to be licensed — similar to what we require of car owners nationwide. This increases accountability for both sellers and buyers, and makes it less likely that a prohibited individual will be able to obtain a gun. Congress should also supplement universal background check legislation with federal licensing laws.
Resume federal funding for gun violence research. Gun violence is a public health crisis, but for the past two decades Congress has effectively cut funding from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and National Institutes of Health (NIH) for studying gun violence. The House of Representatives allocated $50 million of funding for gun violence research at CDC and NIH, and the Senate should immediately pass it. When someone wants to make it illegal to research something, you’ve got to wonder what they’re worried we might find.
Political Action
Our democracy is broken when 90% of Americans — including most Republicans and gun owners — support a policy like universal background checks, and Congress can completely ignore the will of the American people. Forcing our political system to respond will require dramatic action to build and sustain political power. If you’re sickened by the seemingly endless cycle of bloodshed and bigotry, you don’t even have to wait until the next election. All across the country, there are grassroots advocates mobilizing to pass common-sense gun laws that will keep our communities safe. Take action and become an advocate today.
Call your senators and demand they reconvene immediately to act on gun safety and hate. The House already passed bipartisan legislation in February that would strengthen background checks. But Mitch McConnell won’t even bring the bill to a vote in the Senate. Either this Senate needs to respond to the American people, or this Senate needs to be replaced. Dial 877–615–7198 to call your Senator and demand they take action to prevent gun violence and condemn hate at the highest levels of government.
Build the power of those who won’t accept the status quo anymore. For decades, we’ve been told the NRA is unbeatable. Our leaders — both Democrats and Republicans — have bought into this fallacy. But from the March For Our Lives to statehouses across the country, a new generation of leaders has refused to accept the status quo — and they’re building the political power to make real change. Help build their power by contributing: Giffords: Courage to Fight Gun Violence, Moms Demand Action, Brady: United Against Gun Violence, March for Our Lives, and the Community Justice Reform Coalition.¹
End the filibuster as we know it. While we work to take back the Senate, we must also reform it. For too long, Senate Republicans have used the arcane and undemocratic filibuster to thwart the will of the American people. In 2013, in the wake of the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School, bipartisan, common-sense gun safety legislation failed despite receiving 54 votes in the Senate. It’s a pretty basic idea: if the vast majority of Americans support a policy, it shouldn’t require more than a simple majority in the Senate. Call on your senators and Senate candidates to support ending the filibuster as we know it.
Civic Action
Combating hate requires us to build not only policy and political solutions, but cultural and civic ones as well. At the local level, I’ve seen how much more readily we treat our neighbors and coworkers as human beings rather than some category to be demonized. Repairing our social fabric must be part of our approach to taking on this challenge.
Empower local leaders to take action. Use federal grants to empower local leaders — including mayors, law enforcement officials, faith-based organizations, school officials and students, nonprofit leaders and the business community — to find and implement best practices for violence and hate prevention.
Strengthen the social fabric of our nation. The hatred and ignorance manifested in these murderous manifestos is facilitated by a society that has become increasingly alienated from one another. In these times of growing division, it is more important than ever to create shared experiences. And as I found when I deployed to Afghanistan — where I learned to trust with my life people who had nothing in common with me except that we were all Americans — service is a great way to rediscover the bonds that hold us together when others seek to tear us apart. In addition to getting to know your neighbors and participating in local service opportunities, learn more about our call to national service here.
In America, things are impossible until they happen. At the beginning of this decade, it was absurd to imagine that somebody like me could serve openly in the military or be married in my home state of Indiana. But time and time again, from marriage equality to affordable health insurance, we have seen an energized America make incredible breakthroughs. It will require a new way of thinking about our problems and how to meet them, but together we will create change. Join us in making gun safety the issue where the impossible becomes possible.