Thank you, Winnie, for that kind introduction. And thank you to the Center for American Progress for hosting this important event and inviting me talk about the importance of antitrust law.

It is good to be here with this distinguished panel.

Before I was a Senator, I was a prosecutor, and before that I was a lawyer.

At one point early on in my career, my main client was MCI, an aggressive, innovative long-distance telephone company that was determined to disrupt the telecom industry by competing with local monopoly carriers.

It was an exciting time to be representing a hungry young company.

MCI’s scrappy lawyers viewed themselves as cowboys of sorts, fighting for consumers and lower prices, and taking on local telephone monopolies around the country. And that was good training for Washington, which right now feels like the wild, wild West on a daily basis -- strike that, on an hourly basis.

Maybe you remember the first words Alexander Graham Bell said over the telephone: “Come here, Watson, I need you,”

Well, in the wild west world of MCI, when they were getting ready to relay the first communication between St. Louis and Chicago, investor Irwin Hirsh memorialized that great moment like a modern-day Bell. He said: “I’ll be damned. It actually works.”

But, in fact, without antitrust law, MCI would never have worked.

MCI took on Bell Operating Company and its owner AT&T, and ultimately help break up that monopoly, lowered long-distance prices for consumers across the country, and revolutionized the telecom industry.

Now, I know that antitrust law might not make front page news or even capture the attention of all of our nation’s lawmakers. But this is important stuff. And consequential stuff, too.

Just look at South Korea. There, the President was recently impeached based—in part—on allegations that she participated in a bribery scheme that ordered government support of a merger.

Or here in the U.S., the Nixon administration concluded during Watergate that the best way to intimidate the nation’s three major television networks was to keep the constant threat of an antitrust suit hanging over them. And we all know how that ended.

I think the American people intuitively understand that there’s too much concentration in this country—even if they can’t always describe it. In fact, two-thirds of Americans, including a majority of Republicans, have come to believe that the economy “unfairly favors powerful interests.”

Even as our economy stabilizes and grows stronger, it’s easy to see why people feel that way.

Every year I visit all 87 counties in Minnesota.

This year, I’ve been to twenty rural counties in my home state over just the past month. And I can tell you – people are still struggling. They are wary. And growing even more so during this huge transition in Washington.

Some can’t afford to pay their mortgage, much less prescription drugs or the cost of internet service. An increasingly specialized workforce can make it hard to find a job. Too many people who dream of starting their own businesses do not qualify for a loan or can’t afford to take that risk.

They want common-sense solutions. That’s why I’m leading the charge in the Senate to lower prescription drug costs. That’s why I’m working to expand services like career planning, job training, transitional jobs and apprenticeships. And that’s why I am fighting to strengthen the rural economy, which includes everything from tackling poverty and affordable housing to supporting farmers and expanding access to broadband.

For farmers in rural America, net income is 50 percent of what it was three years ago. And the poverty rate for kids in rural areas is four percentage points higher than in urban areas.

So, if you don’t think that major mergers – whether it’s agriculture, cable, or healthcare companies – impact people, this is all the evidence you need. It does have a big impact on Americans.

That’s why one of my top economic priorities is antitrust enforcement—or ensuring we have free, open, competitive markets.

Some people ask, what does a strong economy have to do with antitrust? And the answer is unexpectedly: Everything. Let me repeat that. Antitrust has everything to do with our broader economy.

You’ve heard much of this before: When companies are allowed to compete, businesses can offer the highest quality good for the lowest possible price.

This is all true. But the point I really want to emphasize is this—talking about antitrust only in this way is outdated and oversimplified.

Antitrust enforcement affects more than the prices people pay for the goods they buy.

We now have evidence that competition fosters small business growth, reduces inequality, and increases innovation. In short, tackling concentrations of power is a linchpin to a healthy economy and democracy.

For the last few decades, however, Supreme Court cases—like Trinko, Credit Suisse, Leegin, among others—have raised barriers to the pursuit of antitrust cases. And as Judge Gorsuch is an antitrust expert, it’ll be a good thing to pursue with him next week. Because these are important questions, especially in light of the broad economic implications.

For example, evidence suggests that concentrated interests make it nearly impossible for entrepreneurs and small business owners to compete. So, ensuring competitive markets is one clear way to help our small businesses succeed.

I don’t have to tell you how important small business growth is to our economy. As firms with fewer than 20 workers make up 90 percent of businesses in our country, the stakes of allowing firms to compete could not be higher.

When there are eight or ten competitors, they’re trying to do anything new and innovative to get a leg up on the competition. But when there’s only one firm, the status quo is just fine. There’s no incentive to develop new products.

Concentration can also limit innovation. Think of your cable company and the cable box. No one liked the cable box, but for years the cable company made no modifications and continually increased rental fees.

Recently, competition—like Apple TV and Roku—has improved the viewer experience and expanded choice. Competition drives innovation.

If that was too technical for you, how about beer?

For years, there were a few, dominant breweries, and they all sold similar mass-market beer. By 1978, there were fewer than 50 brewers nationwide.

Then, across the country, entrepreneurs started what we call the craft brewing revolution. They innovated, increased choices, and improved quality.

Today, in my state alone, we have over 70 craft brewers, more than the entire country had back in 1978.

That’s why we had our beer hearing, which was the most widely attended antitrust hearing in the history of America a few years back. What did we call it? Oh, the “beerhemoth merger.” Yes, I remember. That was pretty witty. We really have to work hard in this area to make this exciting.

I’m trying to make the case for you today that this is not only important, but it’s cool to talk about, because it’s all about what’s going to happen with the economy.

Research also suggests that concentration increases income inequality. Intuitively, this makes a lot of sense. Firms with monopoly power raise prices, taking money from consumers and putting it in the pocket of owners and employees. The consumers who spend money far outnumber the owners and employees who gain it—all of which contributes to inequality in this country.

So, we have to recognize the broader benefits of antitrust enforcement. Especially today, when we’re living through an unprecedented wave of concentration across industries.

Since 2008, American firms have engaged in $10 trillion in acquisitions. And over the last five years, there was a 50 percent increase in mergers reviewed by the Federal Trade Commission and Department of Justice Antitrust Division.

There are signs of anticompetitive concentration everywhere. As former Chair and current ranking member of the Antitrust Subcommittee, I’ve raised concerns about several mega-merger proposals during the last couple years.

Take for example, Comcast’s failed merger with Time Warner. As we pointed out at the Senate hearing, if the merger was approved, the combined company would have controlled 60 percent of the country’s high-speed broadband customers.

Or the failed merger between Norfolk Southern Railway and Canadian Pacific, something I took on immediately after it was announced. Even without the merger, 90 percent of freight traffic is handled by only four railroads. As I like to note on this topic, how many railroads are on the Monopoly board? Four. No coincidence.

These examples are part of a larger pattern. Just last year, then Assistant Attorney General for Antitrust Bill Baer, a lifelong antitrust practitioner, said his agency was reviewing deals with such serious antitrust concerns that they should never have made it out of the corporate boardroom.

And there’s more reason for concern. Like the fact that 83 percent of companies that earned 25 percent profit or more in 2003 were still achieving those profit levels a decade later.

Although firms may exploit an advantage in the short-term, winners and losers should change over time in a competitive market. This should be the case in the American economy.

Or the fact that prices in America should be lower than other countries because the market is so large. But, in general, American prices are not lower than in countries with smaller markets.

All of this suggests that now more than ever, we need vigorous antitrust enforcement. Especially in light of the stakes. Without effective antitrust enforcement, we may be jeopardizing our broader economic health.

And there are new types of activity to consider as well. Large institutional investors own almost 70 percent of the stock market. For example, the largest shareholders of Apple and Microsoft are BlackRock and Vanguard. We see this same pattern in pharmacies, soft drinks producers, and banks. It is easy to see how this cross-ownership could hurt consumers.

Many are also rightfully concerned that conditions the agencies place on mergers often fail and that more deals must be blocked. The FTC vigorously disputes these claims and recently published its own merger retrospective. But even the FTC’s own study found a significant number of failed remedies.

And, as merger deals have grown, so have the complexities of the settlements. We often talk about firms being “too-big-to-fail.” A question for modern antitrust enforcement is whether some mergers are too big to fix.

So here’s the billion dollar question—what are we going to do about this?

One big solution is obvious: More aggressive antitrust enforcement to prevent concentration and monopolies.

Here’s the good news. Antitrust and competition policies are not Republican or Democratic issues, they are consumer issues. We can all agree that robust competition is essential to our free-market economy.

And while aggressive antitrust enforcement might not solve all our larger problems, effective enforcement will alleviate some of them.

So, you’d think that in light of this consensus, the enormous economic consequences of antitrust enforcement, and the current merger wave—we’d already be tackling this issue. Unfortunately, that’s not quite true.

I will say that Senator Mike Lee and I have worked very well on these issues together and painstakingly worked out ideas for conditions and other things when we send letters and work with the Antitrust Division. And they have told us repeatedly how helpful it is for them because, in fact, these are bipartisan suggestions and ideas for others.

Which brings me to the bad news. The federal government’s commitment to antitrust enforcement has declined.

Let me explain: Our economy—in terms of nominal GDP—has increased by over 20 percent between 2010 and 2016. And merger filings have increased by over 50 percent. At same time, our antitrust agencies’ budgets have been held flat.

Because antitrust agencies are only able to litigate cases involving the most highly concentrated market, they often can’t deal with new issues like investment funds’ cross-ownership of competing firms without an industry.

Still, these agencies are doing the best they can, and we’ve seen some real results.

In 2015, the Department of Justice obtained a record $3.6 billion in criminal antitrust fines. The antitrust division’s entire operating budget is roughly 5 percent of this figure. What’s incredible is that the division is actually a money maker.

The FTC had six antitrust cases in active litigation last year, including blocking Staples’s proposed acquisition of Office Depot and four hospitals mergers.

And more recently, the antitrust division successfully litigated two mega mergers in the insurance industry, including Anthem and Cigna. Chairman Mike Lee and I held an Antitrust Subcommittee hearing on the effects of these mergers on consumers.

But, we need the agencies to do more. And we need the new Administration to take this seriously.

Some might argue that President Trump—who has been both plaintiff and defendant in antitrust lawsuits—will champion increased enforcement efforts.

First, as a plaintiff in the United States Football League’s case against the NFL, Trump won a dollar in damages (tripled to three dollars). There is even an ESPN documentary about it.

Second, in 1988, he paid a $750,000 penalty to settle claims that he had failed to make required filings with the FTC and DOJ in connection with an acquisition of stock in Holiday Corp and Bally Manufacturing.

So, overall, he’s in the red on antitrust litigation.

During the campaign, then-Candidate Trump’s rhetoric echoed former President Teddy Roosevelt. He even talked about “too much concentration of power in the hands of too few.”

But now it looks like that the President is speaking a different language. I’ll give you a just a few examples:

Early warning signs suggest that the Trump Administration will appoint people who will scale back enforcement. Peter Thiel, one of the President’s close advisers has mocked free markets, saying “competition is for losers.”

The Acting Chairwoman at the FTC has said that the Obama administration’s more aggressive approach to competition “imposed unnecessary costs on business.”

Here’s another example. In a typical administration, the enforcement decisions of the Assistant Attorney General for Antitrust are made independently—the White House is typically not involved.

But at a meeting with the President-elect, the CEOs of Bayer and Monsanto discussed their $66 billion merger, which is currently being reviewed by the Justice Department. After the meeting, the Administration took credit for commitments the companies made to create new jobs and invest in Research and Development.

This was an uncharacteristic discussion and raises concerns that this President may want to negotiate merger settlements himself.

After that meeting, I asked Attorney General Sessions if he would defend the integrity and independence of the Antitrust Division. He said that he would, and I will hold him to that commitment.

That is just the beginning of Congress’s responsibilities. I take my responsibilities on the Antitrust Subcommittee seriously, and am committed to protecting and promoting vigorous antitrust enforcement.

Chairman Lee and I have developed a strong, bipartisan approach to the Committee. We are both committed to the professionalism and independence of the Federal Trade Commission and the Antitrust Division.

If it appears that political concerns have played a role in antitrust enforcement, the Subcommittee can and will hold the agencies accountable.

We will also hold the nominees to the Antitrust Division and the Federal Trade Commission to these same high standards.

But I want to be very clear here. It is not enough to prevent a deterioration of enforcement.

In light of the broader impact of competition, the stakes are just too high to play defense. That’s why today I am announcing that I will introduce a package of bills with three goals:

First, a check on merger conditions.

Effective enforcement depends on feedback. Agencies can make better enforcement decisions if they understand what has worked in the past. And this much is clear—we need to give the agencies the tools to check whether their efforts have been successful.

The FTC’s recent merger retrospective study only covers FTC settlements, and it was the first study since 1999. We have to do better.

Here’s what I propose. A better approach would be to require parties to provide information on a yearly basis after the settlement. Then, agencies could easily review the effectiveness of past settlements, which would inform their future decisions. I believe we can design a requirement that both improves the effectiveness of antitrust enforcement without unduly burdening the companies.

Second, better information.

The Federal Trade Commission or the Department of Justice should gather information about how investment fund ownership affects competition.

Congress needs this information to understand whether there is a problem and when investment fund ownership is anticompetitive or benign.

We need to understand how prevalent the problems are and whether current antitrust tools are sufficient to address them.

Third, we need to up our game.

Antitrust fees that are paid when companies file proposed mergers for review and allow the government to exercise and pursue cases have not kept up with the times.

In fact, the fee has not been adjusted since 2001. And parties involved in larger deals are not paying their fair share.

For example, each party is currently required to pay $280,000 for a deal valued at $807 million or more. But even deals of 100 times that size—which demand greater resources—would incur the same fees.

I propose two simple fixes here. First, while we will take into account the burden on smaller companies, the fees should increase based on gross national product. Second, in an era of megadeals that reach tens or even hundreds of billions of dollars, we need a new category of fees that reflects the complexities of mega-mergers and their serious impacts on consumers.

As one potential model, President Obama’s proposed 2017 budget would have doubled charges for deals over one billion dollars. Even then, the charged amount would be less than 1 percent of the proposed value of the deal.

These proposals are common-sense solutions that will improve the lives of people across the country, and also by the way, improve capitalism. Capitalism is based on fair play and equal competition. It’s based on this idea that you want to have a vibrant system, where small companies can continue to compete and come into the market. If that competition is stifled, it’s not only bad for consumers and for America, it is also bad for business. And so, if any of the other reasons don’t work here, I hope that will.

All of this can be done. It doesn’t take a miracle. It just simply takes the will and the system that we have used so well in America—a system of free market, a system of checks and balances, a system where we put people first.

Protecting competition speaks to the basic principles of economic opportunity and fairness.

So as I said at the beginning, our goal is to make antitrust cool again. And if the Administration won’t do it, we will.

Thank you.

Protecting our nation from those who would do us harm is the first and most important responsibility of Congress.

In the midst of turbulent times abroad, we must remain vigilant in deterring hostile nations and pursuing terrorist networks intent on harming our country. We must also identify and limit vulnerabilities within our borders, ports, and critical infrastructure. As an ever-shrinking global community and advancements in technology draw both our friends and our enemies closer, we must maintain our focus and commitment to protecting our national security. Protecting our nation means strengthening alliances with friendly nations and presenting a united front against adversaries, particularly those that sponsor or condone terrorist activities.

National security also means increasing our capacity to respond to domestic emergencies and disasters and reducing our vulnerabilities abroad and at home. It means limiting our dependence on foreign oil and the unfriendly or unstable regimes that dominate the world’s oil supplies.

As Minnesota’s U.S. senator, I will continue to focus on these priorities:

Strengthening our Armed Forces, National Guard, and Reserves. Our men and women in uniform have consistently performed above and beyond the call of duty, but they have been overstretched by recent conflicts. We need to focus our defense budget on retooling and reinforcing our military capabilities and rewarding those who have sacrificed for this nation, regardless of their service branch. We also need to identify and eliminate wasteful spending and unnecessary programs to ensure fiscal responsibility and accountability in our defense budget, while fully providing our service members with the tools and training they need to carry out their duties. Our military forces should be as cost-effective as possible, and that means investing in the National Guard with its dual federal and state missions. We need to ensure that our National Guard is capable and well-equipped for the full spectrum of missions, and I will oppose disproportionate reductions that target the Guard.

Remaining vigilant against terrorism. Since 9/11, we have made significant improvements to our counterterrorism and intelligence capabilities. However, recent terror attacks and attempted attacks at home and abroad show that terrorists remain intent on causing us harm. Our military forces and intelligence agencies must continue to go after terrorists, including working with our allies to defeat our enemies. We must continue to develop new technology to detect and mitigate threats to our nation by air, land, and sea. We must also strengthen our federal, state, and local intelligence and law enforcement operations and streamline coordination between our national security agencies. By strengthening our security efforts at home and investing in efforts that help prevent terrorist ideologies from developing, we can diminish the threat of terrorism to our nation.

Strengthening our cybersecurity. Modern warfare is evolving to target cyber networks. Countries like Russia, North Korea, China, and Iran have engaged in cyber warfare that targets U.S. networks. Enhancing our country’s cybersecurity to ensure that hackers cannot access our public and private networks is essential. In recent years, cybersecurity breaches have affected our government, our businesses and consumers alike. It is more important than ever that we take steps to strengthen our nation’s cyber security. Since I came to Congress, I have worked to provide the Department of Defense and our law enforcement agencies with the tools they need to strengthen our cybersecurity posture. In the 21st century, our adversaries will continue to use cyberwarfare against our democracy and we need to be prepared to defend our networks against the growing threat of cyber intrusion intended to impact our nation’s critical infrastructure, information systems and elections.

Advancing peace and security in the Middle East. ISIS and other terrorist groups are a serious threat to security in the Middle East and beyond. They are responsible for executing innocent American civilians, massacring and persecuting religious minorities, and trafficking and enslaving women and girls. While much of territory once held by ISIS has been taken back by coalition forces, we must remain committed to rooting out the ideology that gave rise to ISIS in the first place. We have to take a similar approach in going after the people who fund terrorism. It is critical that we continue our efforts to track and cut off the financial resources of terrorist groups. These terrorist threats extend to our own country, as the terrorist groups recruit Americans to join their ranks. We need strong programs that work with our communities to counter violent extremism and prevent recruitment by militant groups seeking to exploit our citizens.

Advancing peace and security in the Middle East requires the United States to continue providing vital assistance to Afghanistan and Iraq. The U.S. and NATO combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan have ended, but a smaller military presence remains to advise and support the security forces. This strategy puts the governments of Iraq and Afghanistan in the lead for security and economic development and allows the United States to continue to conduct counterterrorism operations. The international community must work together to emphasize security and economic development for the people of Iraq and Afghanistan. I will continue to push for strong and necessary oversight of U.S. policy in Iraq and Afghanistan and a responsible approach to U.S. troop engagement that ensures these countries cannot be used as a safe haven for terrorists again.

Combating Iran’s destabilizing activity in Syria. The Syrian conflict has led to one of the world’s worst ongoing humanitarian crises and the worst refugee crisis since World War II. An estimated 250,000 to 500,000 people have been killed and more than 5 million Syrians have registered as refugees since the Syrian conflict began in 2011. This crisis requires an international response and clear U.S. policy to address Iran’s destabilizing activity in the region. I opposed the President’s sudden announcement of the Administration’s plans to quickly withdraw our troops from Syria, which was contrary to the advice of our senior national security officials.

Combating the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. The situation in Yemen constitutes another of the world’s worst humanitarian crises. Out of a total population of 29 million, over 22 million Yemenis are in need of assistance and over 11 million are in acute need. Ongoing hostilities between the Saudi Arabia led coalition and Houthi forces have only exacerbated the humanitarian crisis. We have a responsibility to both support our allies in the region and ensure humanitarian aid reaches those who need it. Doing so realizes our moral obligation and enhances our security by thwarting those who wish to radicalize the youth in the region. In an effort to further the conversation in Congress about the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Yemen I voted in favor of debating a resolution to disapprove of the sale of weapons to Saudi Arabia. I have also voted in favor of debating legislation to repeal the existing authorizations for the use of military force so that Congress can carry out its Constitutional mandate to authorize the use of military force. In addition, I strongly supported legislation to end U.S. support for the Saudi-led coalition military action in Yemen, which passed the Senate by a vote of 56 to 41 on December 13, 2018. 

Support for Israel. America and Israel are close allies whose interests in the Middle East and around the world remain strongly aligned. The deep and enduring friendship between our nations is based on values rooted in democracy and mutual strategic goals, and we must remain steadfast in our commitment to Israel’s security. I have strongly supported funding for security assistance to Israel, particularly for the Iron Dome missile defense system. I have consistently supported additional funds in order to bolster this program, including supporting the Memorandum of Understanding signed in 2016 that committed $38 billion in military aid to Israel over the next ten years. At the same time, I believe that the United States must reinforce its commitment to leading a meaningful peace process of direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. With dialogue, patience, and resolve, our ultimate goal of peace through the region can be realized. As staunch allies of Israel, we must also ensure that harmful movements, like the resurgence in anti-Semitism and the Boycott Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) Movement are not successful. The BDS movement undermines a two-state solution and is counterproductive to both Israelis and Palestinians.

Curbing the threat of a nuclear-armed Iran. Preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon is one of the most important objectives of our national security policy, and I strongly supported the sanctions that helped bring Iran to the negotiating table. After extensive review, I reached the conclusion that the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action – the agreement reached between Iran and the United States, United Kingdom, France, Germany, Russia, and China – was our best available option to put the brakes on Iran’s development of a nuclear weapon, and I opposed the Administration’s decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear agreement. I supported the agreement for four key reasons. First, the agreement curbs Iran’s ability to develop a nuclear weapon. The agreement requires Iran to give up 98 percent of its stockpile of enriched uranium, disconnect two-thirds of its centrifuges, limit uranium enrichment to a single research facility, open its nuclear facilities to continuous monitoring, and allow stringent inspections of its uranium supply chain. Second, if Iran cheats on the deal, sanctions can be reimposed or “snapped back,” and the military option remains on the table. Third, rejecting the agreement would splinter our international partnership of countries that has been critical to preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. Finally, this agreement will move in parallel with increased commitments to security assistance for Israel and our other allies in the region. In conjunction with my support for this agreement, I have pushed the Administration and my colleagues in Congress for additional assistance to Israel and our other regional allies to strengthen their security through support for the Iron Dome, David’s Sling, and the 10-year Memorandum of Understanding entered into in 2016 that commits $38 billion in security assistance to Israel. I will also continue to support efforts to combat terrorist groups in the Mideast and strengthen our response to Iran’s ballistic missile program, human rights abuses, and material support for terrorism. That is why I have supported increasing sanctions against Iran, including targeting those who provide financial support to Hezbollah.

Combating Russian aggression. Our intelligence agencies have confirmed that the Kremlin used cyberattacks, espionage, and propaganda to undermine the 2016 election, including attempts to hack into the election systems of at least 21 states. Russia didn’t just try to hack into our election systems. They also launched an extended information war designed to divide our country and destroy Americans’ confidence in our political system. Top intelligence officials have confirmed Russia interfered in our election, and is currently working to undermine upcoming elections. When we learned that foreign entities were using American social media platforms to conduct foreign influence campaigns during the 2016 election, I introduced the Honest Ads Act with former Senator John McCain of Arizona and Senator Warner of Virginia to strengthen accountability and transparency by holding political ads sold online to the same standards currently in place for TV and radio. I also introduced bipartisan legislation with Senator Blunt of Missouri to help protect our elections from foreign influence by requiring federal campaigns and political groups to verify that online credit card donations come from U.S. sources. In addition, in 2017 I introduced bipartisan legislation with Senator Lankford of Oklahoma, Senator Harris of California, and Senator Graham of South Carolina to provide states with the resources to better protect their election systems from cyber-attacks. Resources to make election security improvements, implement cybersecurity guidelines, and replace outdated electronic voting machines were signed into law in March of 2018.

Since annexing Crimea, Russia has become even more emboldened and aggressive. Despite a fragile ceasefire in Ukraine, the Russian military maintains a significant presence in eastern Ukraine. Russia has conducted cyberattacks on U.S. computer systems and provides weapons to Iran and Syria. Our commitment to NATO is more important than ever. Our allies and adversaries around the world need to know that we will stand together to protect each other against military aggression. If President Putin continues to ignore international law and engage in hostile behavior, we must continue to escalate political and economic pressure on his regime and reinforce the global coalition against Russian aggression.

The United States and our allies should work to help the government in Kiev and deescalate the violence in eastern and southern Ukraine. I supported legislation that was signed into law in March 2014 to help accomplish these goals by authorizing loan guarantees and other assistance to help support the new Ukrainian government and imposing targeted sanctions on Russian officials who have contributed to the crisis.

Combating North Korean aggression. North Korea’s accelerating nuclear and ballistic missile programs pose a serious threat to the United States and our allies and the country’s leader, Kim Jong-un, is a ruthless dictator who has committed horrible crimes against his own people. We need a comprehensive strategy on North Korea that includes diplomacy, economic pressure and engagement with our allies in the region. That is why I voted for sanctions against the North Korean government in both 2016 and 2017. Under these laws, foreign governments that buy or sell defense equipment to North Korea are prohibited from receiving certain U.S. assistance. Our country’s financial institutions are prohibited from working with foreign banks that do business with North Korea. These laws also impose sanctions on North Korean cargo and shipping, goods produced by forced labor in North Korea, and people or companies that employ North Korean forced laborers. Unilateral escalation without a plan and without our allies is not in America’s best interest. I will continue to work to ensure that we do everything we can with our allies to address the threat posed by North Korea.

Strengthening the vetting process for visitors and refugees. I have been a strong advocate for our refugees, and I oppose the Administration’s “Muslim ban” as well as other efforts to reverse long-standing U.S. refugee policy. I have also long supported a strong vetting process for visitors and refugees. The current vetting process for refugees involves layers of security checks, including health checks, repeated biometric checks, biographical and background screening, and in-person interviews by trained officers. Multiple agencies are involved including the FBI's Terrorist Screening Center, the State Department, the Department of Homeland Security, the National Counterterrorism Center, the Department of Defense, and U.S. intelligence agencies. The Department of Homeland Security has added an additional country-specific layer of review for Syrian refugee applications. A refugee applicant cannot be approved for travel until all required security checks have been completed and cleared. Another way to help ensure that those who seek to harm us do not get into the United States is to strengthen the Visa Waiver Program. That’s why I worked with members from both sides of the aisle to introduce the Visa Waiver Program Security Enhancement Act that was signed into law in 2015 and requires additional biometric information and electronic passports for participation in the program and increasing information sharing between countries.

Seizing the opportunity for a new day in North America. By working together, we in the United States, Canada, and Mexico can improve our ability as a region to compete in the world economy and to enhance our collective security. Together, the three largest countries on the continent are strong democracies with a combined population of 490 million people, increasingly integrated economies worth nearly $20 trillion that produce almost 30 percent of global goods and services, a secure international position, and the potential for achieving continent-wide energy independence. This was the vision put forward at the North American Leaders’ Summit in Toluca in February 2014, and it is one that we should continue to embrace. This would include developing a North American competitiveness agenda focused on fair trade, increasing cross-border investment, innovation, and private sector integration, as well as improving coordination on regulatory practices, border management, and energy. Together, North America can more effectively export its products to new and emerging markets in Asia, South America, and Africa. As one of the heads of the Canadian/American Interparliamentary group, I strongly supported including Canada in the Administration’s trade negotiations and opposed their efforts to exclude them.

Modernizing our relationship with Cuba. Revamping our approach to North America also includes modernizing our relationship with Cuba. I strongly support lifting the embargo and travel ban on Cuba. Increasing travel and commerce between our two countries will create new economic opportunities for American farmers and businesses and help improve the quality of life for Cubans. Our policies toward Cuba should emphasize our economic interests in expanded commerce and travel and our political interest in cultivating new freedoms for the Cuban people. More than fifty years of the embargo have not secured these interests—it is time for us to try another approach. That is why I have introduced the bipartisan Freedom to Export to Cuba Act, which would eliminate the legal barriers to Americans doing business in Cuba, boosting job creation and exports. It does not repeal provisions of current law that address human rights in Cuba or that allow individuals and businesses to pursue claims against the Cuban government.

Responding to global food and water shortages, environmental and climate change challenges, and national disasters. As the global population continues to grow, so will the demand for essential resources, including food and water supplies. The unpredictable effects of climate change could lead to more global instability due to rising poverty, mass migrations, increased border tensions, and greater demands for rescue and recovery efforts. It is our obligation to help those who lack access to stable food and water supplies. We must take steps to combat global climate change and also be prepared to respond to natural disasters, both at home and around the world.

Combating global poverty and disease. We must continue to lead the global fight against AIDS, Zika, Ebola, malaria, and other diseases that are devastating entire regions. We must develop and distribute stockpiles of medicine and vaccinations to prevent future global epidemics.

Increasing security at our borders, ports, airports and critical infrastructure sites. This includes the screening of cargo entering U.S. ports, enacting effective security regulations for nuclear and chemical plants, and guarding our food supply. We must provide our first responders and emergency personnel with the full resources they need to respond to disasters, natural or manmade. We must also continue to do everything we can to strengthen security at airports and at train stations. We need to continue to focus our attention on enhancing aviation security and ensuring that our mass transit and rail systems are prepared for new, changing, and more sophisticated threats. We must also ensure that our airports are safely screening passengers in an efficient way. I support smart security at our borders and oppose the Administration’s proposal to build a wall across our entire southern border.

Reaffirming our commitment to NATO and other international institutions that promote freedom and democracy. The United States must continue to lead the global community toward the common goals of peaceful exchange and interaction. International organizations and institutions can be vehicles for achieving our objectives and serving our national interests, and we must make the most of them.

Reducing our dependence on foreign oil. Our national security is in part dependent on oil-producing nations whose policies and objectives often diverge from our own. Fostering stable and sustainable homegrown energy sources has great potential to increase our national security. Our energy agenda should include biofuels, wind power, solar, and other sources of renewable energy, in addition to  domestic oil drilling, natural gas, hydropower, nuclear, geothermal, and waste-to-energy technology. Minnesotans know that the renewable fuels industry creates good jobs and strengthens our economy, in addition to reducing our dependence on foreign oil. We should be investing in the farmers and workers of the Midwest, not the oil cartels of the Middle East.

Securing our elections. The freedom to choose our leaders and know with full confidence that those leaders were chosen in free and fair elections is critical to our democracy. We must ensure those on the front-lines of administering elections are equipped with the tools and resources necessary to keep them safe and we also must take measures to prevent a foreign adversary from interfering in our elections.
Since coming to the Senate, I have fought to make America more secure by:

Enacting into law the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. When I arrived in the Senate many of the important 9/11 Commission recommendations had been languishing for years. In my first six months as a senator, I helped pass the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act to provide our government with a blueprint to prevent future catastrophes and strengthen the resources available to our first responders. These critical reforms provide increased funding to protect our ports, borders, and critical infrastructure, including enhancing rail and aviation security.

Ensuring that our troops have the resources and support they need to do their jobs and remain safe. I have traveled to Iraq and Afghanistan to see firsthand the actions of our brave Minnesotans in the field and to meet with U.S. military commanders and diplomatic leaders. I have been impressed by our military leadership, encouraged by the spirit of our soldiers, and honored to meet with Minnesota troops and thank them for their service and sacrifices on behalf of our nation. I came home with a commitment to give our troops stationed in combat zones the equipment and resources they need to successfully carry out their missions and to ensure they are treated with the respect they deserve when they return home. In the Senate, I have supported funding increases for better and safer equipment – including to provide our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan with mine-resistant combat vehicles and individual troop body armor – and to address shortfalls in critical National Guard equipment. I fought for and voted in favor of the 2018 budget deal lifting the budget caps on both the Department of Defense and domestic discretionary programs so that the resources needed by both the military and our domestic law enforcement agencies is available. I also fought to create and secure funding for a national Yellow Ribbon program, based on the Minnesota National Guard’s ground-breaking model, to ensure that Guard members and their families have the support they need before, during, and after deployments. [See Veterans section for additional legislation and actions.

Supporting our National Guard and Reserves. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have also highlighted the importance of our brave citizen-soldiers in the National Guard and Reserves and the unprecedented sacrifices they have been called upon to make over the past decades. I have been fighting to ensure that our National Guard has the tools and resources it needs to be successful. [See Veterans section.] I fought to help the Minnesota National Guard host one of the National Guard Cyber Protection Units. Hosting a Cyber Protection Team allows the Minnesota National Guard to serve as a national leader in the fight against cyber terrorism. I helped to bring Active Association status to the Bulldogs of the 148th Fighter Wing in Duluth. This designation helped ensure the base’s long-term future and increased economic activity in the Duluth community. I also fought to get new fighter jets – the “Block 50” F-16s – to the 148th Fighter Wing by working to secure funding to help modernize base facilities and improve infrastructure at the Duluth airport.

Supporting sanctions. Sanctions are a critical tool for responding to and discouraging hostile actors. That is why I fully supported the sanctions President Obama imposed against Russia in response to their interference with our democracy; North Korea in response to nuclear tests; and Iran in response to its ballistic missile program. I also voted for a resolution disapproving of the current Administration’s decision to lift sanctions on three companies with ties to a Russian oligarch who is an ally of President Putin. The United States must continue to impose sanctions on hostile actors to both defend our democracy and discourage belligerent behavior. We must also stand with our friends when they are faced with aggression from adversaries. That is why I traveled to the Ukraine, the Baltic states, and Georgia in December of 2016 with former Senator McCain and Senator Graham. Our allies in eastern Europe deserve our support in the face of Russian aggression. I am continuing to work to ensure we reinforce our bipartisan commitment to strengthening our NATO alliances.

Supporting Israel. America and Israel are close allies whose interests in the Middle East and around the world remain strongly aligned. The deep and enduring friendship between our nations is based on values rooted in democracy and mutual strategic goals, and we must remain steadfast in our commitment to Israel’s security. That’s why I have strongly supported funding for security assistance to Israel, particularly for the Iron Dome missile defense system and the Memorandum of Understanding signed in 2016 that committed $38 billion in military aid to Israel over ten years. I have consistently supported additional funds in order to bolster this program. In 2017, I was one of the first cosponsors of a bipartisan resolution objecting to the United Nations efforts to undermine direct negotiations between Israel and Palestinians for a secure and peaceful settlement. I also joined 97 of my Senate colleagues in voting for the authorization of additional sanctions against Iran.

Support for foreign aid and keeping the State Department strong. Helping our friends and allies is not only the right thing to do, but the smart thing to do. Foreign aid is critical to helping address refugee crises, preventing radicalization and promoting stability around the world. The United States has a long and proud tradition of providing life-saving humanitarian assistance. We must continue to provide that assistance and maintain our standing in the world as a nation that comes to the aid of those in need. We must also provide the resources necessary for our Foreign Service and State Department to do their work as the civilian face of the United States overseas and I oppose the major reductions to the State Department budget proposed by the current Administration.

Countering Violent Extremism. While we must continue to focus on the effort to degrade and dismantle ISIS and other terrorist groups with military operations overseas, we must also stem the tide of recruitment of both foreign fighters and homegrown terrorists in order to succeed. That is why I have repeatedly urged Congress and the White House to support funding for efforts that promote community engagement and work to prevent radicalization. In 2014, Minnesota received $216,000 in federal funding to create a pilot program to address violent extremism. In 2015, I worked to authorize more than $50 million for these efforts, including $10 million in local community grants. In 2017 Minnesota received over $770,000 to support these programs. 

Increasing the security of our nation’s transportation networks. The 9/11 Commission Act included measures to improve rail and aviation security across the nation. I also worked with the Transportation Security Administration and the Department of Homeland Security to implement the Secure Flight program, which modernizes and improves security – and makes it more efficient – before travelers even get to the airport. The program also strengthens our ability to identify and prevent potential threats, while reducing delays and inconveniences to American travelers caused by terrorist watch list misidentifications. I also helped bring additional security resources and personnel to our airports, including more canine teams at the Minneapolis-St. Paul airport that help keep our airport safe and decrease wait times at security checkpoints. In 2012 I introduced the No-Hassle Flying Act which increases security by encouraging foreign airports to enhance their baggage screening equipment and helps increase efficiency and the passenger experience by eliminating the need to have bags re-screened here in the U.S. The bill was signed into law in 2012. TSA reported that the cost savings realized from the increased efficiency resulting from the bill was over $1 million annually.

Keeping our airports secure. In order to improve safety and efficiency at our airports, I supported increasing the Department of Homeland Security’s budget by more than $62 million to hire more than 1,000 additional screeners. I also fought to pass an amendment that doubles the number of law enforcement teams that secure the ticket lines and baggage claim areas of our airports. That amendment passed in the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization bill that was signed into law in 2016. I have also worked with the Minnesota Airport Council to ensure that vital security resources get to our airports. I helped secure approval of overtime, deployment of additional K-9 teams, and the deployment of newly-hired Transportation Security Officers to Minneapolis-St. Paul to permit more lanes to be opened. These measures improved the safety and efficiency of security screening at our airports and helped reduce wait times

Strengthening vetting for international travelers coming to the U.S. I worked with members from both sides of the aisle to introduce the Visa Waiver Program Security Enhancement Act that was signed into law in 2015 and requires additional biometric information and electronic passports for participation in the program and increasing information sharing between countries. Due to the additional biometric information required under the law terrorist are far less likely to access the program.

Providing first responders with life-saving communications tools. I was an original cosponsor of the Public Safety Spectrum and Wireless Innovation Act to allow for state-of-the-art technology that will help first responders in both rural and urban communities at no cost to taxpayers. I helped pass legislation to implement a nationwide wireless network to allow our first responders to clearly communicate when disaster strikes and focus on doing what they do best – saving lives. As co-chair of the Next Generation 9-1-1 Caucus, I worked with members from both parties to successfully reauthorize the federal 9-1-1 Coordination Office to manage the transition to the Next Generation 9-1-1 emergency response system. I have also passed legislation to require multi-line phone systems to have direct dial 9-1-1 functionality, which would make accessing first responders easier for those in need. This legislation was signed into law in February 2018.

Promoting domestic energy production. Over the past few years, U.S. oil production has surpassed that of Saudi Arabia. Through a combination of U.S. oil and natural gas production, renewable energy sources like wind power, solar, and biofuels, and increased gas mileage standards that I supported, the United States has the opportunity to continue to reduce its reliance on foreign oil and approach energy independence. I successfully included legislation in the 2008 and 2014 Farm Bills providing incentives for U.S. farmers to grow the next generation of biofuel crops. I have also urged the Administration to support biofuels infrastructure development and have pushed for strong renewable energy and energy efficiency standards. I have also supported efforts to promote the use of renewable fuels in military installations to sustain the long-term capabilities of our forces.

Advocating for Minnesota interests in meetings with customs officials and residents of Minnesota’s border cities about how to secure our borders. I have worked to cut through the red tape that has been created by some new border crossing laws to help business travelers, tourists, hunters, anglers, and families. As part of this effort, I pushed for the creation of a U.S. passport card as an alternative document for U.S. citizens crossing our northern border to maintain the flow of commerce and tourism, while ensuring security. I also introduced the Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act to help improve border screening and infrastructure at our borders. This bipartisan legislation was signed into law in 2016 and helps use public-private partnerships to improve trade and security at our norther border. I was also a cosponsor of the Northern Border Security Review Act which was introduced by former Senator Heitkamp and was signed into law in 2016. The law requires the Department of Homeland Security to provide Congress with regular security assessment reports on the northern border.

Supporting our Ally Canada. A common border connects the United States and Canada, but our common values and ambitions are the true foundations of the unparalleled friendship between our two nations. As co-chair of the U.S. Interparliamentary Group, I have had the honor of leading delegations of U.S. senators to the annual Canada-U.S. meetings to discuss common issues and challenges our two nations face. We are stronger and more secure when we stand together with Canada.

Helping Minnesota businesses get access to the Cuban market. Improving relations with Cuba is something that I’ve been working on with people from all across our state. Increasing travel and commerce between our two countries will create new economic opportunities for American farmers and businesses and help improve the quality of life of Cubans. The Minnesota Department of Agriculture has estimated that exports to Cuba would nearly double if the embargo were lifted, putting total farm exports at between $40-50 million per year. That is why I have introduced the bipartisan Freedom to Export to Cuba Act. My legislation lifts the trade embargo and knocks down the legal barriers to Americans doing business in Cuba. My bill would help open up new economic opportunities for American businesses and farmers by boosting U.S. exports and would also help improve the lives of everyday Cubans by allowing them greater access to American products and services. I have successfully pressed U.S. Customs and Border Protection to allow direct flights between Minnesota and Cuba. I also convened a summit in Minnesota focused on ways to improve U.S.-Cuba relations and testified before the International Trade Commission to highlight the economic benefits of boosting American exports to Cuba.

Global Health Response. The spread of viruses like Ebola and Zika threaten our national security. The best way to stop the spread of dangerous viruses is to address the outbreaks at the source. I fought to get more than $5 billion in funding to fight the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, including more significant investments in humanitarian aid and assistance to improve health care infrastructure. I also pushed for an immediate response to the Zika virus in the United States. As Chair of the Senate Steering and Outreach Committee, I brought together leading medical experts, public health officials from across the country, and other senators to discuss the need for congressional action on President Obama’s emergency funding request to control the spread of the Zika virus. I also hosted a roundtable discussion at the University of Minnesota with local and national leaders to discuss Zika educational and outreach efforts in Minnesota and federal efforts to support local prevention measures and research. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention awarded $200,000 to Minnesota for Zika detection and preparedness.

Demanding accountability for American taxpayer funds. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan revealed disturbing revelations that billions of dollars in American taxpayer money was lost to corruption, fraud, and waste. There must be accountability for reconstruction funds that are intended to provide the Iraqi and Afghan people with the meaningful economic assistance they need to rebuild their respective countries. Illegal and unethical practices not only undermine reconstruction efforts – they hurt our troops in the field and impair their ability to carry out critical missions. When I first came to the Senate, I cosponsored a bipartisan provision in the Defense Authorization bill that established an independent commission to increase transparency and accountability in wartime contracting. The commission, modeled after the famous Truman Commission during World War II, helps to ensure accountability for U.S. tax dollars spent in Iraq and Afghanistan. I have also repeatedly voted to cut funding for programs the Defense Department has found to be unnecessary to ensure our defense budget is focused on the programs and technologies we need to strengthen our Armed Forces.

Securing our elections and stopping foreign influence. Our top intelligence agencies confirmed Russia interfered in our 2016 election, launched cyberattacks against at least 21 state election systems, and are currently working to undermine upcoming elections. Right now there are more than 40 states that rely on electronic voting systems that are at least 10 years old and many election officials do not have the information they need about potential cyber threats. That’s why I introduced the bipartisan Secure Elections Act, which would establish that alarm system by providing resources and information to upgrade and protect our election infrastructure. The bill also ensures the Department of Homeland Security shares election cybersecurity threats and information with state, county, and municipal election agencies. I worked to secure $380 million in funding for these efforts to improve states’ election infrastructure and help protect states from future attacks by foreign adversaries in March 2018. We also have to make sure our elections are free from foreign influence campaigns and there are rules of the road in place for social media that includes disclaimers on ads and increased transparency and disclosure. The law banning foreign contributions to U.S. elections has not been updated for more than 50 years. This means that current disclosure requirements for online campaign contributions do not fully protect our election system from foreign interference. That is why I introduced the Honest Ads Act with former Senator McCain and Senator Warner that would strengthen accountability and transparency by holding political ads sold online to the same standards currently in place for television and radio.
Over the past decades, the men and women of our Armed Forces have been asked to fight two separate, difficult wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Faced with tremendous challenges, our troops have responded with great skill, courage, and honor. Since these wars began, more than two million U.S. troops have been deployed. Thousands of Minnesotans in uniform have served in Iraq and Afghanistan. Minnesota’s active duty servicemen and women, National Guard members, and Reservists have continued our state's proud tradition of military service to the nation.

I have always believed that when we ask our young men and women to fight in defense of our nation, we make a promise that we will give them the resources they need to do their jobs.  We also promise to take care of them when they return home. As a nation, we have an obligation to support those who have sacrificed for us.

In decades past, veterans like my father could count on their government to stand by them. After World War II, our government adopted the GI Bill to provide health, housing, and educational benefits. Just as we did then, we have a responsibility now to ensure fair compensation policies, full education benefits, and the healthcare that our veterans and their families deserve.

Care for Our Troops

When I arrived in the Senate, our nation had already been engaged in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan for several years. Yet the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs were struggling to provide adequate services and benefits to meet the demands created by the new type of conflicts our troops had been fighting. Far too many servicemembers were being sent into combat without adequate body armor or armored vehicles, and far too many were returning to face inadequate treatment for Traumatic Brain Injuries and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder – the signature injuries of these wars. As we saw with the investigations at Walter Reed Medical Center, many wounded warriors were being housed and treated in unacceptable conditions. And across the nation, far too many veterans faced severe bureaucratic hurdles in order to receive the benefits they earned. Our servicemembers and veterans deserved better and the situation demanded action.

Since 2007 we have taken important steps to improve care, support, and benefits for our troops, veterans, and their families. We upgraded the equipment for our troops in the field to help them safely carry out their missions. We provided record funding increases to strengthen military healthcare and improve veterans’ health services under the VA. We passed the landmark Post-9/11 GI Bill, which provided enhanced tuition and housing benefits to service members seeking to continue their education and smoothly transition into the civilian workforce. And we passed the pivotal Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act, which not only improved support and training for family caregivers – who often carry the largest burden of nursing our wounded warriors back to health – but also strengthened health programs for women and rural veterans.

I oppose efforts to privatize the VA, and I will continue to fight to ensure that our veterans are getting the support and care they need and deserve and that VA employees responsible for mismanagement or mistreatment of veterans are held accountable. I pressed the VA Inspector General’s office to ensure that all allegations of improper practices at Minnesota VA facilities are fully investigated. I also supported the bipartisan Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act (VACAA), which increased funding available for the VA to hire medical professionals, expanded flexibility for veterans to seek care at non-VA facilities, and created an expedited process for the VA to terminate or demote senior executives. I cosponsored legislation to improve the effectiveness of VACAA by ensuring that veterans who live more than 40 miles driving distance from a VA facility can receive care from a non-VA provider, which led the VA to adopt this policy in February 2015. I will continue to work to improve the implementation of VACAA and push for changes like those in the Caring for Our Veterans Act to ensure the VA works for Minnesota veterans. That includes holding the VA and contractors accountable for the services they provide to veterans.     

National Guard and Reserves

The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have highlighted the importance of our brave citizen-soldiers in the National Guard and Reserves and the unprecedented sacrifices they have been called upon to make over the past decades. The National Guard and Reserves were not built to serve as an active duty force for prolonged periods, yet at times, as many as 40 percent of American forces fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan were Guard and Reserve troops. The repeated mobilizations and overseas deployments of Guard and Reserve units have profoundly affected families and communities in Minnesota and across the nation.

As a member of the National Guard Caucus, I have been steadfast in my support of the Minnesota National Guard members who continue to serve us bravely and honorably, both at home and abroad. I worked to pass the National Guard Empowerment Act to help upgrade Guard members by creating a position on the Joint Chiefs of Staff for the National Guard and Reserves as well as improving federal-state military coordination in domestic emergency response scenarios. I have been committed to supporting their families, who bear extraordinary burdens while their loved ones are deployed overseas. During my time in the Senate, I have worked to ensure equitable GI benefits for Guard members and Reservists. I’ve supported the largest increase in Army Guard Active Guard Reserve positions in 25 years and helped ensure billions of dollars to support upgrades of National Guard equipment and facilities. And I have fought to secure regular funding to extend and expand to the national level Minnesota’s pioneering Beyond the Yellow Ribbon Program, which provides community support to Guard members and their families throughout the deployment cycle. 

Minnesotans know all too well the burden that is placed on the men and women in our Armed Forces. As a nation and as a state, we have an obligation to wrap our arms around those who serve and sacrifice for us. I am committed to continuing to ensure that we fully repay the sacrifices our veterans have made for all of us, in wars past and present.

As Minnesota’s U.S. senator, I will continue to focus on these priorities:

Ensuring that our troops have the resources and support they need to do their jobs and remain safe. I traveled to Iraq and Afghanistan to see firsthand the actions of our brave Minnesotans in the field and to meet with U.S. military commanders and diplomatic leaders. I was encouraged by the spirit of our soldiers and honored to meet with Minnesota troops to thank them for their service and sacrifices on behalf of our nation. I came home with a commitment to give our troops stationed in combat zones the equipment and resources they need to successfully carry out their missions and to ensure they are treated with the respect they deserve when they return home. In the Senate, I have supported funding increases for better and safer equipment, including to provide our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan with mine-resistant combat vehicles and individual troop body armor and to address shortfalls in critical National Guard equipment.

Improving the VA. We must ensure that our veterans are getting the support and healthcare they need and deserve, and that VA employees responsible for mismanagement or mistreatment of veterans are held accountable. 

Eliminating the claims backlog to ensure Minnesota veterans receive the full benefits they have earned. The men and women who have served our nation often wait months or even years to receive the pension or disability benefits they are due for their service. We owe it to our veterans to cut through the claims backlog and the red tape and ensure they have all the support they need, both in the short- and long-term.

Recognizing the unique challenges faced by our National Guard and Reserves. Over the past decades, our citizen-soldiers in the National Guard and Reserves have increasingly been asked to serve in front-line combat positions side-by-side with active duty soldiers. Although we have made many improvements, many steps must still be taken to equalize conditions, equipment, and benefits between active duty troops and National Guard and Reserve troops. The National Guard is the most cost-effective and versatile component of our Armed Forces. We need to ensure that our National Guard has the equipment and training for the full range of international and domestic missions. I have supported legislation to require independent commissions to review Army and Air Force plans that cut National Guard forces. I will continue to fight for the resources the National Guard needs to continue its important role in our nation’s defense. 

Supporting our military families. When we mobilize a soldier, we also mobilize his or her entire family. During deployments, military spouses have to keep food on the table and snow off the sidewalk, mow the lawn and do the laundry, and run the household on their own. While they are overseas, many Guard and Reserve members suffer a substantial drop in their household incomes, and their families often struggle to make ends meet. We must do more to support and sustain the families of our troops before, during, and after the deployment cycle. 

Expanding job opportunities for our veterans. The men and women who have served our country in uniform should not return from war only to face another battle finding a job. We need to focus on building job opportunities for returning servicemembers by making sure skills developed during their service transfer to the private sector and by improving training and hiring incentives to ensure that veterans transition smoothly into civilian employment. I also believe Guard and Reserve members and their families should not suffer as a result of their willingness to respond to emergencies, and employers should be rewarded for maintaining their commitment to these brave men and women who answer the call to duty. 

Fighting to end veteran homelessness. Approximately eleven percent of all homeless adults in America are veterans. In Minnesota, officials identified 317 homeless veterans in the state in 2014. These are men and women who proudly wore the uniform of our nation and, at the very least, they deserve a home. 

Improving treatment of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and other mental health needs.  According to a Veterans' Health Administration report from 2012, roughly one-third of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans who sought care through the VA have been diagnosed with potential symptoms of post-traumatic stress, drug abuse, or other mental health disorders. We must provide increased counseling services and create greater awareness for the tens of thousands of veterans suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. 

Helping Veterans Exposed to Toxic Burn Pits. It took the government years after the Vietnam War to recognize that there was a link between Agent Orange and the devastating health effects on our soldiers. We can’t let history repeat itself—burn pits can’t become today’s Agent Orange. We need to better understand and address the relationship between burn pit exposure and the health needs of our brave men and women in uniform. That’s why I introduced legislation with Senator Thom Tillis of North Carolina to create a Center of Excellence in the Department of Veterans Affairs focused on researching the health effects associated with burn pits and treating veterans who become sick after exposure. Our bill was signed into law in September 2018. I am also leading legislation with Senator Dan Sullivan of Alaska to require that members of the Armed Forces be evaluated for exposure to toxic airborne chemicals during routine health exams and direct the Secretary of Defense to record whether servicemembers were based or stationed near an open burn pit.

Expanding healthcare for veterans who have suffered traumatic injuries. Tens of thousands of veterans have returned from the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts with serious wounds. Many service members severely injured in Iraq and Afghanistan who sought hospital treatment were diagnosed with traumatic brain injuries. We must increase the number of polytrauma treatment centers created in recognition of the large number of servicemembers who have sustained multiple severe injuries – including head and spinal injuries – as a result of explosions and blasts on the battlefield. We must also improve the long-term and assisted living services for veterans with traumatic brain injuries.

Strengthening support for survivors of military sexual assault. According to the Department of Defense’s own records more than 14,900 service members were sexually assaulted in 2016. The Defense Department has found that about one in three military women has been sexually assaulted, a rate twice as high as that among civilians. This is unacceptable. Sexual assault not only harms the victim, but also weakens unit morale and readiness. We must take steps to ensure protection and justice for the men and women who risk their lives to defend our country.
Since coming to the Senate, I have worked to make sure that veterans who have risked their lives for our freedom and security have the resources they need and deserve:

Improving veterans’ health care. Since 2007 I have joined my colleagues in providing record funding increases for military healthcare and to strengthen and improve veterans’ healthcare programs and services under the Department of Veterans' Affairs.

Expanding Access: It isn’t enough to provide our veterans with health care. Veterans deserve timely access to the best healthcare that we can offer. I fought to include provisions in the 2014 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) requiring the Defense Department and the VA to report on steps they are taking to reduce the excessively-long backlog of disability evaluations. I also supported the bipartisan Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act (VACAA), which increases funding available for the VA to hire medical professionals and expands flexibility for veterans to seek care at non-VA facilities. I will continue to work to improve the implementation of VACAA and push for changes like those in the Caring for Our Veterans Act to ensure the VA works for Minnesota veterans. That includes holding the VA and contractors accountable for the services they provide to veterans. In addition, I cosponsored the Veterans Appeals Assistance and Improvement Act of 2015, bipartisan legislation that would improve and expand pro bono legal services for veterans during their appeals process.

I introduced legislation with former Representative John Kline to protect veterans from erroneous and untimely VA billing practices after a number of Minnesota veterans who received treatment at the Minneapolis VA Medical Center received bills up to five years late. Another way to improve access to healthcare for our veterans is to ensure VA medical facilities can recruit qualified mental health professionals, doctors, dentists, and nurses. That’s why I introduced the Veterans Access to Care Act, bipartisan legislation that would designate VA medical facilities and state veterans' homes as Health Professional Shortage Areas (HPSAs), which would allow the VA to be more competitive in the recruitment of healthcare service providers.

We also have to make it easier for veterans to make appointments with their doctors. A June 2014 internal audit by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) found that more than 120,000 veterans waited at least 90 days for appointments for healthcare or never received appointments at all. Excessive wait times can put veterans’ lives at risk, but technology that makes it easier to schedule appointments already exists and is being used in the private sector. In response, I introduced the Faster Care for Veterans Act, a bipartisan bill that was signed into law in 2016 that has created a pilot program at the VA for veterans to schedule their medical appointments online without unnecessary red tape and delays. The pilot is currently ongoing at the Minneapolis VA Health Care System.

Finally, I am a supporter of the Veterans Debt Fairness Act which would protect veterans from financial hardship caused by VA overpayments and recoupment. In 2016 and 2017, over 490,000 overpayment notices were issued to veterans. Oftentimes the VA recoups the funds by withholding some or all of a veteran’s monthly disability benefit. The Veterans Debt Fairness Act would improve the VA’s process by only allowing the VA to collect debts that occur as a result of an error or fraud on the part of a veteran, prohibits the VA from deducting more than 25 percent from a veteran’s monthly payment, prevents the VA from collecting debts incurred more than five years prior, and requires that the VA provide veterans with a way to update their dependency information on their own.

Ensuring Accountability: To bring more accountability to the VA, I cosponsored the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014. This bipartisan legislation ensures veterans are better served by allowing the VA to replace senior officials found responsible for mismanagement and mistreatment of veterans. A version of this legislation was included in legislation that was signed into law in August 2014, and that also improved oversight of the VA’s healthcare system, increased available resources to hire more medical staff, and provided increased flexibility for veterans to seek care outside the VA system. I also supported the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017 which was signed into law in June of 2017. This bill provides the VA the authority to remove certain employees or senior executives for reasons of misconduct while protecting whistle-blowers.

Addressing Unique Medical Challenges Including Burn Pits: I worked to extend benefits to veterans with physical conditions that resulted from their military service. I introduced the bipartisan Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act, bipartisan legislation that became law in September 2018 to create a center of excellence within the Department of Veterans Affairs to focus on the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and rehabilitation of health conditions relating to exposure to burn pits. I also introduced legislation with Senator Dan Sullivan to require that members of the Armed Forces be evaluated for exposure to toxic airborne chemicals during routine health exams and direct the Secretary of Defense to record whether servicemembers were based or stationed near an open burn pit. With an increasing number of our brave men and women returning home citing illnesses potentially caused by burn pit exposure, it’s clear that greater attention is needed to get our veterans the care they need.  In addition, I cosponsored the Agent Orange Equity Act to ensure benefits for “blue water veterans” who became exposed to the dioxin Agent Orange during their service in the waterways around Vietnam.  

Increasing Newborn Care for Veterans. I introduced the Newborn Care Improvement, bipartisan legislation that would double the number of days veterans receive care for their newborns from seven to 14. Currently, a veteran must find outside healthcare for her child within seven days of birth or the baby will not have health insurance.

Ensuring all service members and veterans get the benefits they have earned. In the summer of 2007, members of the Minnesota National Guard’s 1/34th Brigade Combat Team returned home from Iraq after serving the longest continuous deployment of any unit in the Iraq war only to learn that, due to government red tape, many were not able to receive the full pay or educational benefits their service merited. We successfully cut through the red tape to deliver the full educational benefits these soldiers had earned.

Guard and Reserve members should not be treated differently based on what deployment designation is used to call them up for service. Right now, a loophole in the law means that two reservists serving side by side could receive different benefits based on what law the Department of Defense used to deploy them. This is wrong and must be fixed. Former Senator Franken and I introduced the National Guard 12304b Benefits Parity Act. The provisions of the bill related to education benefits for soldiers serving under the 12304b designation were signed into law in August of 2017. I continue to work with my colleagues to push for passage of legislation that would ensure that health, education, and retirement benefits are not denied to Reserve Component soldiers serving under the 12304b designation. 

In 2012, nearly a thousand Minnesota National Guard troops learned their post-deployment leave benefits had been unexpectedly cut in the middle of their deployment to Kuwait. I worked closely with former Representative John Kline to pass a bill into law in May 2012 to restore the full leave benefits that these Minnesota soldiers – and 49,000 soldiers nationwide – had been promised. 

Since 9/11, 31,000 servicemembers have been discharged after being diagnosed with personality disorders, which denies them the right to Veterans Administration (VA) healthcare or benefits. In reality, many of those servicemembers may not have been properly diagnosed by a mental health expert and may be suffering from service-connected Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). In March of 2013 I worked with Senator Jon Tester of Montana to introduce the Servicemember Mental Health Review Act, which helps these veterans who may have been discharged with improper mental health diagnoses get their records corrected and their benefits restored. I also included an amendment in the FY2014 NDAA to require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to assess the Department of Defense’s (DOD) compliance with its own regulations for discharging servicemembers for mental health reasons, and I supported the successful effort to repeal the cut to military retiree pensions that was made in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013.

To help respond to the crisis of suicides among veterans, I joined with former Senator John McCain and former Representative Tim Walz as one of the original cosponsors of the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act, which passed the Senate and was signed into law in February 2015. This legislation will help expand access to mental health services for veterans by establishing a loan repayment program to help the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) recruit more psychiatric specialists, enhancing resources for veterans transitioning to civilian life, and improving the VA’s ability to address traumatic brain injuries.

Recognizing Combat Zone Service. I was an original cosponsor of the Sinai Service Recognition Act. The United States has deployed service members to the Sinai Peninsula since 1982 to perform a peacekeeping function. The Department of Defense designated the Sinai Peninsula as a “Qualified Hazardous Duty Area” in 2015, however, the President did not designate the Sinai Peninsula as a “Combat Zone.” As a result, troops deployed to the Sinai did not benefit from the same tax-free treatment as those who are deployed to designated combat zones. The Sinai Service Recognition Act was included in legislation signed into law in December of 2017 and now servicemembers deployed to the Sinai benefit from the same tax-free treatment as those deployed to designated combat zones. 

Expanding the Beyond the Yellow Ribbon program. This program, pioneered by the Minnesota National Guard, helps soldiers make the transition from military to civilian life through counseling and other services. Since 2007, we have been able to secure regular funding through Defense Appropriations bills to extend and expand this program in Minnesota. In addition, we passed legislation to create and fund a national Yellow Ribbon program based on Minnesota's groundbreaking initiative.

Modernizing veterans’ educational benefits. The Post-9/11 GI Bill, which I cosponsored and which took effect in August 2009, provides enhanced tuition benefits so that any veteran who serves at least three months on active duty will receive benefits to cover the costs of up to 36 months of higher education, depending on length of service. This critical legislation will help GI Bill benefits keep pace with the rising cost of college, while ensuring that Guard and Reserve members receive educational benefits comparable to those granted to active duty soldiers. I was an original cosponsor of the Forever GI Bill that was signed into law in August of 2017. That bill ended time limits on use of veteran educational benefits. I also authored the bipartisan Servicemember Student Loan Interest Relief Act to prevent interest from accruing on student loans during deployment and to help ensure servicemembers are not set back financially as a result of their service to our nation.

Helping veterans transition back to the civilian workforce. Thousands of the brave men and women who serve in our military receive excellent training that is highly valued in the civilian workforce. I helped pass the VOW to Hire Heroes Act into law in November 2011 to promote the hiring of unemployed veterans by requiring separating servicemembers to participate in career training programs and providing a tax credit to employers who bring unemployed veterans into their workforce. I also introduced the bipartisan Post-9/11 Veterans Job Training Act to allow veterans to use their GI Bill benefits for job training and apprenticeship programs to help them obtain the skills they need to succeed in the civilian workforce. This provision went into effect in October 2011.

Many who serve in our military receive emergency medical training as part of their duties. These servicemembers return home with valuable skills and the need for good jobs. In order to help address veteran’s unemployment and reduce the shortage of much-needed emergency medical personnel in rural communities, I introduced the bipartisan Veterans to Paramedics Transition Act, which became law in August 2016. This legislation will help veterans earn professional certification by streamlining civilian paramedic training for returning veterans who already have emergency medical experience from their military service.  I have also supported legislation to accelerate commercial driver’s licensing procedures for veterans who received driving experience in the military, as well as legislation to provide a tax credit to military spouses to cover their re-credentialing costs when they must move to a new state for their spouse’s military service. In addition, I introduced legislation that was signed into law in June 2017 to encourage law enforcement agencies to hire veterans. The American Law Enforcement Heroes Act prioritizes the Department of Justice Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) grant applications of state and local law enforcement agencies that use that funding to hire veterans.

Cutting Out-of-Pocket Costs for National Guard Members and Reservists. In Minnesota, 30 percent of all National Guard members travel more than 50 miles for training. Our servicemembers shouldn’t be burdened with costly travel expenses simply for completing their required duty training each month. I have introduced legislation that will help reduce the cost of service and make a big difference for thousands of soldiers in the Minnesota National Guard by reducing the mileage that can be claimed on taxes from 100 to 50.

Supporting Children of the National Guard and Reserve. More than one million military-connected children face challenges associated with service, including frequent moves, parental deployments, and other issues related to parents in the service. I have introduced legislation that ensures children of our guard and reserve servicemembers are identified as students of military families in school records. This requirement would help ensure that schools and teachers know which students have parents in the military and help accommodate those needs. This already applies to children of active duty servicemembers and it must be applied to the National Guard and Reserve.

Helping improve programs for homeless veterans. I introduced and passed into law in 2012 the bipartisan Helping Our Homeless Veterans Act to improve programs for homeless veterans – particularly those living in rural areas – to make sure they receive housing and support services to help them get back on their feet. This legislation encourages partnerships between the VA and community providers, building on local expertise to ensure that no veteran slips through the cracks. 

Strengthening support for victims of military sexual assault. Despite increasing awareness of the problem of sexual assault within our Armed Forces, the Department of Defense had no unified system in place to ensure storage of assault victims’ medical and forensic records. That’s why I authored the Support for Survivors Act to ensure lifelong preservation of victims’ records so they are able to seek care and justice for the trauma they have experienced. All of the women senators of both parties cosponsored this bill and its major provisions were signed into law in December 2011. In 2012, I introduced the bipartisan Military Sexual Assault Prevention Act with former Senator Olympia Snowe to improve tracking and review of sexual assault claims in the military and help ensure victims can get the justice they deserve. Key provisions from this bill – those requiring retention of records, enhanced reporting on military sexual assault, and an established Defense Department policy against sexual harassment – were incorporated into the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013, which became law in January 2013.

I continued the fight against sexual assault in the military by reintroducing the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Act in March 2013 with Senator Lisa Murkowski, which requires the military services to elevate the rank of the officer authorized to dispose of sexual assault charges, sets preferred policy for the disposition of sexual assault cases through courts martial, and requires the Secretary of Defense to retain restricted reports of sexual assault for at least 50 years in order to ensure veterans who have been victimized by these crimes will have the records they need to claim medical treatment and benefits. I also introduced a bill to require the Defense Department’s Inspector General to investigate allegations of retaliation against servicemembers who report incidents of sexual assault. Both this bill and the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Act of 2013 were included in the FY2014 NDAA, which was signed into law by the President in December 2013. In September 2014, I introduced the National Guard and Reserve Access to Counsel Act to ensure that members of the National Guard and Reserve who are victims of sexual assault have access to Special Victims’ Counsel (SVC) services if the assault had any connection to the victims’ military service. I worked with former Representative John Kline to pass this legislation in the FY2015 NDAA, which was signed into law in December 2014.

While major positive changes have been made to how the military handles sexual assault cases, there is still more to do. Along with many of my colleagues, I am continuing to work to improve how the military prosecutes serious crimes like sexual assault.

Securing funding for equipment and infrastructure for our Minnesota National Guard. I worked with our Minnesota National Guard commanders and other members of our Minnesota congressional delegation to secure upgraded F-16 planes for the 148th Fighter Wing that is a central part of the Duluth community. With the support of the Minnesota National Guard and Duluth officials and businesses, I successfully worked to establish an association of active duty airmen at the Duluth air base. I have also secured funding for the Minnesota National Guard’s Joint Force headquarters and emergency operations center in Arden Hills, a field maintenance shop in Mankato, a storage facility for the Duluth Air Guard base, and a new training facility at Camp Ripley. In addition, when the Air Force proposed eliminating the Air Reserve 934th Airlift Wing in Minneapolis, I led the effort to communicate the unit’s unique capabilities and value to Air Force leadership, which resulted in a reversal of the Air Force’s proposal in 2013.
“After four years of Donald Trump, a new President can’t wait for a bunch of congressional hearings to act,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar. “The urgent problems our country is facing require immediate action. That’s why in my first 100 days as President I will enact an ambitious, optimistic agenda to improve our health care, combat climate change, pursue economic justice and shared prosperity, and build a stronger democracy and safer world. With these concrete steps, we will put our country back on a path of progress where people have an opportunity to get ahead.”
During the first 100 days of Senator Klobuchar’s presidency, she will:
Get the United States back in the International Climate Agreement on day one. On day one of Senator Klobuchar’s presidency she will get us back into the International Climate Change Agreement, working so that the United States maintains global leadership to address the climate crisis.
Immediately suspend the Trump Administration’s efforts to eliminate the Affordable Care Act’s protections for people with pre-existing conditions. Senator Klobuchar will immediately suspend all Trump Administration efforts — both in federal court and at the Department of Health and Human Services — that would allow insurance companies to deny coverage to people with pre-existing conditions.
Rebuild our relationship with our allies and restore America’s standing in the world. To rebuild the relationship with our allies that President Trump has undermined, Senator Klobuchar’s first international trips as President will be to Canada and Europe to begin restoring trust with our most important allies.
Immediately allow for the safe importation of prescription drugs from countries like Canada. Americans pay double what Canadians do for some prescription drugs, which is why Senator Klobuchar will use existing Food and Drug Administration authority to grant a waiver that allows people to import safe prescription drugs for personal use from countries like Canada to decrease drug costs for seniors and all Americans.
Fill judicial vacancies by nominating well-qualified judges on day one. Senator Klobuchar will waste no time in working with the Senate and the American Bar Association to nominate a full slate of well-qualified judges who will follow the law to fill judicial vacancies on federal courts on day one of her presidency.
Revive the aggressive protection of voting rights. Senator Klobuchar will restore the federal government’s longstanding position of challenging intentionally racially discriminatory voting laws. And while Congress works to restore the Voting Rights Act (VRA), Senator Klobuchar will direct the Department of Justice to use Section 3 of the VRA to “bail-in” jurisdictions to its preclearance requirements, allowing federal courts to place jurisdictions under the oversight requirement of the VRA.
Prioritize cybersecurity and protect our elections and other American infrastructure from cyber attack. As President, Senator Klobuchar will make cybersecurity an immediate priority. She will issue an Executive Order launching government-wide cybersecurity initiatives, fast-tracking and streamlining procurement of modern information technology across agencies. She will also launch a cabinet-level taskforce on election cybersecurity to coordinate across agencies, including the intelligence community, on how the federal government can work with state and local governments to address cyber threats to our democracy and infrastructure. She will also introduce legislation that provides election security funding, requires backup paper ballots, and requires campaigns to report contacts from foreign nationals seeking to interfere in an election to federal authorities.
Update the standards for reviewing both horizontal and vertical mergers to ensure vigorous antitrust enforcement. To tackle unprecedented consolidation and monopoly power, Senator Klobuchar will direct the Department of Justice to update its guidelines to ensure vigorous and aggressive enforcement of our antitrust laws.
Undertake aggressive retrospective review of mergers. To tackle corporate consolidation in what she has called “the new gilded age,” Senator Klobuchar will direct her Attorney General to have DOJ’s Antitrust Division undertake aggressive retrospective reviews of mergers. She will introduce legislation to increase funding for antitrust enforcement efforts by adjusting merger filing fees and she will change the legal standards to promote competition and prevent consolidation.
Raise the minimum wage for federal contractors to $15. In line with her goal of increasing the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour, Senator Klobuchar will increase the minimum wage for federal contractors to that threshold.
Expand VA health benefits for women veterans and their babies. The Women Veterans Health Care Improvement Act of 2008 gave the VA the authority to provide care for newborn babies born to women veterans, but a narrow interpretation of the law is preventing access to care. Senator Klobuchar will direct the VA to expand covering the costs of medically-necessary emergency services for newborn babies of veterans.
Jump-start legislative negotiations for comprehensive immigration reform with the stated goal of passing it in the first year. Senator Klobuchar will jump-start negotiations for comprehensive immigration reform — which includes a pathway to citizenship, the DREAM Act and border security — with the stated goal of passing it in the first year of her presidency. Comprehensive immigration could reduce the deficit by $158 billion.
Protect DACA and TPS and Deferred Enforcement Departure designations. While she jump-starts negotiations for comprehensive immigration reform with the stated goal of passing it within the first year, Senator Klobuchar will undo attempts by the Trump Administration — many of which have been blocked by courts — to deport DREAMers and immigrants who are living, working and succeeding here under Temporary Protected Status and Deferred Enforcement Departure.
Shine a light on the corporate dark money spending. Senator Klobuchar will shine a light on the dark money by requiring publicly traded companies to disclose all political spending over $10,000 to their shareholders.
Bring transparency to dark money issue advocacy. Senator Klobuchar will direct the IRS to institute the requirement that tax-exempt organizations that engage in issue advocacy disclose to the IRS the names of individual donors who contribute more than $5,000 per year.
Propose landmark legislation that drives our changing economy forward and provides opportunity to all Americans. Our laws and our policies have not kept pace with our changing economy and the digital revolution. That’s why Senator Klobuchar will propose landmark legislation to take on monopoly power, empower our workers, and protect consumers’ privacy and health data privacy. She will also invest in quality child care, raise the minimum wage, provide paid family leave, support small business owners and entrepreneurs, as well as establish portable, worker-owned UP Accounts for retirement savings. She will also allow students to refinance their loans at lower interest rates, provide tuition-free community college and technical certifications, and expand Pell Grant eligibility and award amounts. To pay for these policies and reduce the debt, Senator Klobuchar will repeal the regressive portions of 2017 Republican tax reform, equalize tax rates for capital gains and ordinary income, put the Buffet rule in place, and close the carried interest and big oil loopholes.
Immediately close the “boyfriend loophole.” Senator Klobuchar leads legislation in the Senate to close the ‘boyfriend loophole’ by preventing people who have abused dating partners from buying or owning firearms, and she will take executive action to get it done immediately.
Introduce gun violence legislation. Senator Klobuchar will introduce gun violence legislation including putting universal background checks in place, closing the gun show loophole, and banning bump stocks, assault weapons and high capacity magazines.
Consider gun violence as a public health issue in CDC studies. Senator Klobuchar will direct the CDC to study gun violence as a public health issue and help identify approaches to reduce gun violence and save lives.
Propose a historic investment in public education. Senator Klobuchar will propose legislation to make a historic investment in America’s education system that will fully fund education and our schools, increase teacher pay, close the opportunity gap, fully fund the IDEA, boost STEM education and apprenticeship opportunities, and rebuild our crumbling school infrastructure.
End the misguided overuse of secret RFS small refinery waivers that have been granted to big oil companies at the expense of farmers. Senator Klobuchar will completely overhaul the EPA’s small refinery waivers and greatly increase transparency, ensuring that RFS waivers meant for small refiners do not go to big oil companies like Chevron and ExxonMobil and that these secret waivers do not line the pockets of big oil companies at the expense of farmers.
Protect federal employee labor rights. Senator Klobuchar will immediately rescind Executive Orders signed by President Trump that severely restrict federal workers’ rights, including the right to collectively bargain.
Prioritize mental health and addiction. Senator Klobuchar will take immediate action to combat substance use disorders and prioritize mental health, including launching new prevention and early intervention initiatives, expanding access to treatment,enforcing mental health parity laws, and giving Americans a path to sustainable recovery. This includes addressing workforce shortages for nurses, psychiatrists and other mental health professionals in many areas of the country and it means addressing the lack of hospital services and treatment beds.
End attacks on tribal sovereignty. Senator Klobuchar will respect tribal sovereignty including by stopping the Department of Justice from taking anti-sovereignty positions in litigation, directing the Department of Health and Human Services from deferring to states on Medicaid rules for tribal members, and increasing meaningful tribal consultation.
Make a plan to connect every household to the internet by 2022. Senator Klobuchar will work to close the rural-urban divide by connecting every household to the internet by 2022. This means directing federal support to close the last mile gap, overhauling broadband coverage mapping so areas that need support receive federal funds, and encouraging public-private partnerships in the areas of greatest need.
Restore and strengthen the Clean Power Plan. To address the climate crisis, Senator Klobuchar will bring back and strengthen the goals established by the Clean Power Plan, which set emissions standards for states with respect to reductions in carbon dioxide emissions.
Bring back the fuel-economy standards. Senator Klobuchar will restore and strengthen our fuel economy standards, which are key to fighting climate change. The Trump Administration has weakened the fuel-economy standards for cars and light trucks and has challenged the right of California and other states to follow more stringent standards.
Introduce sweeping legislation to address the climate crisis. Senator Klobuchar will introduce sweeping legislation to combat the climate crisis that builds on the framework of the Green New Deal, including a massive investment in green jobs and infrastructure, climate research and innovation, environmental justice programs, rural energy development and better greener transportation. In addition to a major direct federal investment, her legislation will create state, local and private incentives for the immediate adoption and deployment of clean energy technology to reduce emissions, including the promotion of green manufacturing. Her proposal will put our country on a path to achieving 100% net-zero emissions no later than 2050, fulfill our responsibility to our communities and workers who have helped power this country, and includes incentives and support for tougher building codes, appliance standards, buy clean, and climate resilience.
End “pay for delay” agreements that increase the cost of prescription drugs. Senator Klobuchar will take aggressive action to crack down on drug companies that are — in effect — paying the makers of generic drugs to delay cheaper versions of drugs from getting into the market.
Outline a plan to cut childhood poverty in half in ten years and end it within a generation. Senator Klobuchar will put forward a plan to cut childhood poverty in half in ten years, including expanding the Earned Income Tax Credit, the Child Care Tax Credit, SNAP benefits and overhauling our country’s housing policy.
Restore and strengthen overtime rules. Too many American workers have been working overtime without getting paid for the extra hours. Senator Klobuchar will restore and strengthen the Obama Administration’s overtime rules to expand overtime pay to millions of workers, increasing the maximum salary for a worker to qualify for the overtime pay they’ve earned.
Propose legislation to get us to universal health care. Senator Klobuchar will propose legislation that gets us to universal health care, which includes creating a public health care option by expanding either Medicare or Medicaid, as well as improving the Affordable Care Act to help bring down costs to consumers through reinsurance, providing cost-sharing reductions, expanding premium subsidies, and continuing delivery system reform. Her legislation will also provide additional consumer protections and lower the costs of prescription drugs through aggressive reforms including lifting the ban that prohibits Medicare from negotiating the best possible price. These programs significantly reduce cost to consumers and help promote choice.
Develop best models of care to address disparities in maternal and infant mortality and address the shortage of maternity care health professional in underserved rural and urban areas. Senator Klobuchar will immediately implement a new law that tackles the shortage of maternity care health professionals — including nurses, midwives, and obstetricians — in underserved areas, and she will develop best models of care to address racial disparities in maternal and infant mortality.
Stop Trump sabotage of the ACA by ending workarounds that allow states to raise premiums for sicker people and shift ACA premium subsidies away from lower-income enrollees. Senator Klobuchar will eliminate the Trump Administration guidance that provides states more flexibility to increase insurance costs for sicker people and shift premium subsidies away from low-income enrollees.
Remove the citizenship question from the Census. Senator Klobuchar will direct the Department of Commerce to remove the Trump Administration’s citizenship question that was added to the 2020 Census from the short form during preparations for the 2030 Census.
Ensure funding for Planned Parenthood, end the global and domestic gag rules, and restore the Title X program. Senator Klobuchar will reverse the Trump Administration’s decision to change the Title X program to ban health providers like Planned Parenthood from receiving funding under Title X. She will end the global and domestic gag rules, and she will fight for legislation that codifies Roe v. Wade and protects women’s reproductive rights
Prevent outsourcing of jobs overseas by closing tax loopholes on corporations’ overseas earnings. The 2017 tax law instituted a new minimum tax on corporations’ overseas earnings but applied the tax on a global or “blended” rate, encouraging companies to move physical operations and jobs overseas. Senator Klobuchar will direct the IRS to mitigate the worst effects of this law and crack down on attempts to minimize tax liability through outsourcing.
Take on domestic terrorism. Senator Klobuchar will prioritize combating domestic terrorism and empower law enforcement to investigate and prosecute perpetrators of hate-motivated violence, including against minorities, people of color, immigrants, and the LGBTQ community. She will direct the Department of Homeland Security to resume its work tracking right wing extremism, including white nationalism. And she will require federal law enforcement agencies to regularly assess the threat of domestic terrorism and increase training and resources for state and local law enforcement to address it.
Provide incentives for employers to adopt paid family leave and child care benefits. Senator Klobuchar will reward federal contractors by providing additional points during the contract bidding process if contractors offer paid family leave to their employees or child care benefits.
Restore freedom to travel to and trade with Cuba. Fifty years of an embargo have not achieved America’s policy objectives in Cuba. Senator Klobuchar believes that a better path forward would allow Americans the freedom to travel and conduct business there and that lifting the trade embargo will open a huge export market, create American jobs, and support both the Cuban and American economies. She will revive policies to expand the ability of Americans to travel to Cuba and facilitate U.S. exports to the island using credit to the maximum extent allowed by current law while respecting human rights and property claims against the Cuban government.
Create a clemency advisory board and position in the White House that advise the President from a criminal justice reform perspective. Senator Klobuchar will create a clemency advisory board as well as a position in the White House — outside of the Department of Justice — that advise the President from a criminal justice reform perspective. The clemency advisory board will investigate and review requests for clemency for federal offenses and ultimately prepare a recommendation for the President.
Aggressively combat illegal Chinese steel dumping. Senator Klobuchar will ensure the federal government is aggressively combating illegal Chinese steel dumping including through expanded personnel to enforce our trade laws and increased inspections of steel imports at ports of entry. She will also direct the U.S. Department of Labor to expedite approval of Trade Adjustment Assistance petitions for workers from the affected mining operations.
Restart the President’s Export Council. Senator Klobuchar will restart the President’s Export Council, which brings together business, labor, and agricultural leaders with Members of Congress and key Administration officials to help promote a comprehensive export and trade strategy. She will also review all international tariffs in place as of 2021.
Reverse dramatic proposed funding cuts to diplomacy and foreign assistance. Senator Klobuchar will reverse this Administration’s shortsighted approach to diplomacy and US foreign assistance. The FY2020 budget request would cut diplomacy and development funding by 23 percent, including a 30 percent cut to humanitarian assistance and a 22 percent cut to the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief.
End the sale of junk insurance policies that eliminate existing protections for consumers. Senator Klobuchar will end efforts to provide short-term junk insurance that eliminates existing protections for consumers like protections for people with pre-existing conditions and Affordable Care Act requirements to cover essential health benefits.
Restore protections for journalists and protect the First Amendment. Senator Klobuchar will restore former Attorney General Eric Holder’s guidance on protections for journalists so that they are not jailed for doing their jobs.
End the family separation policy. Senator Klobuchar will issue an Executive Order putting an immediate end to the cruel and inhumane policy where the government is taking kids away from their parents and ensuring children are reunited with their parents without delay. She will also reverse this administration’s attempt to overrule the Flores Settlement Agreement, which prevents prolonged detention of children and prevents children from being detained in inhumane conditions by requiring basic levels of food, water and health care.
Restore staffing levels at the Department of Agriculture. Under the first two years of the Trump Administration, between December 2016 and March 2018, USDA had more staff departures than any other federal agency. This has severely impacted USDA’s ability to carry out its mission on behalf of rural communities and farmers. Senator Klobuchar will restore staffing levels to the appropriate levels.
Protect student borrowers. Senator Klobuchar will restore and strengthen rules that allow students who believe they were defrauded by their colleges to apply for loan forgiveness, providing relief to thousands of additional students.
Crack down on gun manufacturers and dealers that break the law. Senator Klobuchar will increase inspections and strengthen enforcement to crack down on gun manufacturers and sellers that violate the law.
Commit to strong financial regulation. Senator Klobuchar will rescind Executive Order 13772, which has allowed the Treasury Department and other financial regulators to weaken critical safeguards put in place after the financial crisis. She will commit to strong financial regulation that levels the playing field and promotes economic stability and growth.
Stop the use of noncompete agreements to stifle competition and hurt workers. Senator Klobuchar will instruct the FTC to initiate a rulemaking addressing anti-competitive noncompete agreements that prevent low-wage workers from pursuing new employment opportunities.
Strengthen minimum wage enforcement efforts. Senator Klobuchar will strengthen enforcement and expand investigations to make sure that are wage laws are properly enforced and that workers are able to recover back pay when the government rules in their favor.
Lift the ban preventing qualified transgender people from serving in the military and restore protections for the LGBTQ community. Senator Klobuchar will direct the Department of Defense to lift the ban on military service by transgender people. She will reverse the harmful anti-LGBTQ administrative actions taken by the Trump Administration when it comes to education, health care and civil rights, and she will work to pass the Equality Act in year one of her presidency.
Protect LGBTQ people from government-sanctioned discrimination. Senator Klobuchar will stop efforts to give federal protections to those discriminating against LGBTQ people. She will end all efforts by the Department of Justice that argue that transgender people do not have protections under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act.
Prioritize LGBTQ antidiscrimination policies across the federal government to address homelessness, suicide and access to life-saving drugs. Senator Klobuchar will expand efforts to reduce LGBTQ homelessness, address LGBTQ suicide rates, and increase access to PrEP. She will create an office of LGBTQ Antidiscrimination within the White House Domestic Policy Council to coordinate these efforts across federal agencies.
Propose a bold infrastructure plan to rebuild America and re-establish the Presidential Advisory Council on Infrastructure. The Presidential Advisory Council on Infrastructure was intended to provide the federal government with expertise from key sectors on infrastructure policy, but President Trump disbanded the council. Senator Klobuchar will reinstate the council to execute her first budget proposal: a bold, comprehensive infrastructure plan. This trillion-dollar investment includes repairing and replacing our roads, highways and bridges, building smart climate infrastructure, ensuring clean water, modernizing our airports, seaports and inland waterways, expanding reliable public transit options, rebuilding our schools, and overhauling our country’s housing policy. The plan will be paid for by changes to the tax code including adjustments to the corporate tax rate.
Restore asylum for the victims of gender-based violence. Senator Klobuchar will overturn former Attorney General Jeff Sessions’s opinion in Matter of A-B and restore protections for immigrant victims of domestic violence seeking asylum in the United States.
End anticompetitive practices that increase the price of prescription drugs. Many pharmaceutical companies have found loopholes in regulations that allow them to block or delay cost-saving competition like refusing to provide samples or share important information about how to distribute a drug safely. As President, Senator Klobuchar will instruct HHS to issue regulations to stop anti-competitive practices and help reduce the cost of prescription drugs.
Reduce racial disparities in disciplining students. Senator Klobuchar will re-issue guidance directing schools to reduce racial disparities in how they discipline students, which prompted more than 50 of America’s largest school districts to institute discipline reform.
Bring cyber-security expertise into the Defense Department immediately. Senator Klobuchar will direct the Department of Defense to immediately provide adequate staffing for cyber security programs, as Congress has already provided the Pentagon with special authority to recruit civilian cybersecurity experts.
Strengthen prosecution of white-collar criminals. Senator Klobuchar will direct the Attorney General to issue a memorandum to federal prosecutors to strengthen prosecution efforts for individuals who are personally responsible for white-collar, corporate crime and tax fraud.
Expand Medicaid reimbursement for people receiving mental health or substance use treatment. While she works to pass a permanent legislative solution, Senator Klobuchar will make it easier for states to qualify for waivers that allow for Medicaid reimbursements for people receiving mental health or substance use care in facilities with more than 16 beds.
Fully fund the IDEA and reinstate the guidance protecting the rights of students with disabilities. Senator Klobuchar’s budget will fully fund IDEA to support students with disabilities. In addition, Senator Klobuchar will reinstate documents protecting the rights of students with disabilities after Secretary DeVos rescinded 72 guidance documents outlining those rights.
Restore oversight to eliminate discriminatory lending practices. Senator Klobuchar will direct financial regulators to restore Community Reinvestment Act protections, develop policies to encourage financial institutions to make loans and investment in local communities, especially communities in need, and conduct greater outreach to assess the true credit needs of certain areas.
Provide Americans a strong taxpayer advocate. The IRS Taxpayer Advocate exists to help taxpayers navigate tax laws and serve as an ally when Americans need to engage with IRS representatives. But the Trump Administration refused to designate the Taxpayer Advocate Service an “essential service,” forcing it to close shop during the government shutdown and leaving taxpayers without a crucial ally. Senator Klobuchar will designate the IRS an essential service so taxpayers have continued access to this support and advocacy.
Encourage reinsurance programs. Rather than penalizing states who put reinsurance programs in place, which happened under the Trump Administration, Senator Klobuchar will encourage states to adopt reinsurance programs that stabilize the state’s insurance marketplace, lower premiums, and allow more people to access to affordable, quality health care.
Provide incentives for states and localities to adopt sentencing and prison reforms. Congress passed the First Step Act, which changed the overly harsh sentencing laws on nonviolent drug offenders and reformed our federal prisons. But the reform only applies to those held in the federal system. The new law doesn’t help the nearly 90% of people incarcerated in state and local facilities. Senator Klobuchar will create federal incentives so that states can restore some discretion from mandatory sentencing for nonviolent offenders and reform the unconscionable conditions in state prisons and local jails.
Restore staffing levels at the EPA. The Environmental Protection Agency now has fewer staff members than President Reagan’s EPA had in his final year in office. Senator Klobuchar will restore appropriate staffing levels to allow the agency to effectively protect the environment.
Strengthen the Minority Business Development Agency. The Minority Business Development Agency provides technical and managerial expertise to help minority business overcome social and economic disadvantages. President Trump has proposed eliminating the agency, but as President, Senator Klobuchar will ensure it has the resources it needs.
End Illegal Robocalls. Senator Klobuchar will coordinate efforts to crack down on illegal robocalls across the Federal Trade Commission, Federal Communications Commission, and Department of Justice and direct the Department of Justice to aggressively pursue robocall scammers while working with Congress to increase penalties for aggravated violations of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act.
Remove barriers to education for homeless and foster youth. Senator Klobuchar will direct her Secretary of Education to remove barriers to higher education for homeless and foster youth, including by ensuring grant programs identify, recruit and prepare homeless and foster students for college.
Restore staffing levels at the Office of Civil Rights and the Office of Federal Student Aid. The Trump Administration has dramatically cut staffing levels at the Department of Education. Senator Klobuchar will restore staffing levels at the Department of Education, including at the Office of Civil Rights and the Office of Federal Student Aid, which has created obstacles for processing more than 87,000 borrower defense claims as well as impeded investigations into Title IX violations.
Prevent misclassification of workers. Senator Klobuchar will rescind the Department of Labor guidance under the Trump Administration that makes it easier for businesses to misclassify workers, which can result in reduced benefits, lower wages, discrimination, diluted worker protections, and abdications of legal responsibilities.
Expand investments in veterans telehealth services. Senator Klobuchar will further expand investments in VA telehealth to ensure rural veterans have access to medical professionals, especially for mental health services.
Ensure funding to prevent and respond to violent hate crimes and address racial discrimination. Senator Klobuchar will fully staff and fund the Justice Department’s Community Relations Service, a non-investigative office of “peacemakers” founded by the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which provides communities facing racial and other conflict with confidential services to ease tensions.
Reinstate the National Climate Assessment Advisory Committee to immediately start addressing the climate crisis. The National Climate Assessment Advisory Committee was charged with translating the findings of the National Climate Assessment into concrete goals. Senator Klobuchar will reinstate this committee that President Trump let expire.
Improve free tax filing. Senator Klobuchar will direct the IRS to prevent tax preparation vendors from steering low-income taxpayers toward paid products, which has reduced the use of free filing products. She will also direct the IRS to devote greater resources to the enforcement of vendors’ obligations under the Free File program.
Reverse the Attorney General’s memo directing federal prosecutors to seek the most severe penalties in all cases. Senator Klobuchar would reverse former Attorney General Jeff Sessions’s memo limiting federal prosecutors discretion and requiring them to seek the most severe penalties possible in all cases. She will also restore the Smart on Crime initiative, which had been hailed as a positive step forward in rehabilitating drug users by focusing on more serious drug cases and fewer indictments carrying mandatory minimums. Senator Klobuchar will start the evaluation process to reschedule marijuana, collecting the required scientific and medical evaluations and recommendations.
End attempts to reduce federal housing subsidies. Senator Klobuchar will reverse the Trump Administration’s proposed changes to federal housing subsidies that could triple rent for some households and be particularly harmful for seniors, families with children and people with disabilities.
Promote net neutrality. Senator Klobuchar will use federal contracting requirements to encourage broadband providers to honor net neutrality principles and promote a free and open internet.
Support agricultural research. The Trump Administration has repeatedly proposed budgets for USDA that cut billions for rural development, conservation, and research. These include the forced closure of agricultural research laboratories and stations. Senator Klobuchar will give these important programs the support they deserve.
Put rules in place to prevent pay discrimination. The Trump Administration has tried to block rules that require large companies to disclose what they pay employees by sex, race, and ethnicity in an effort to prevent pay discrimination. Senator Klobuchar will end the Trump Administration’s legal efforts to prevent the rule from taking effect.
Prevent the expansion of private school vouchers. Senator Klobuchar will stand firmly with our public schools and end discussions of Secretary Betsy DeVos’s $50 billion proposal to fund private school vouchers.
End the travel ban. Senator Klobuchar will put an end to the administration’s travel ban, recognizing that immigrants don’t diminish America, they are America. While security and vetting should stay in place, the Trump Administration’s ban was wrong.
Support the Manufacturing Extension Partnership. The Manufacturing Extension Partnership program helps small manufacturers innovate, upgrade their technology and improve production. Senator Klobuchar will support and expand this program, which the Trump Administration has tried to eliminate.
Hold for-profit colleges accountable if they put profits above students. The Trump Administration has repeatedly delayed rules requiring vocational programs at for-profit higher education institutions to show that they provide gainful employment for their students. Senator Klobuchar will hold for-profit colleges accountable if they put profits above students by ensuring that these protections are in place.
Establish a new senior fraud prevention office. Senator Klobuchar will establish a new senior fraud prevention office to educate consumers, expedite the handling of complaints, and coordinate prevention efforts across the federal government.
Collect data to address LGBTQ disparities. Senator Klobuchar will ensure all federal data collection efforts accurately reflect the needs of LGBTQ communities including reinstating LGBTQ data in the foster care system and Older American Act that the Trump Administration has tried to stop collecting.
Reopen and expand the Office for Access to Justice. Senator Klobuchar will reopen and expand the Office for Access to Justice, which makes access to legal aid more accessible to people and has the stated goal of making sure the justice system delivers outcomes that are fair and accessible to all, irrespective of wealth or status.
Raise the refugee admissions cap. Under President Trump, the State Department has dramatically lowered the annual cap on the number of refugees that can be resettled in the United States. Senator Klobuchar will direct the State Department to restore the cap to at least its pre-Trump Administration level.
Invest in the Veterans Health Administration. Expanding access to private care cannot come at the expense of fully funding and even expanding the current Veterans Health Administration (VHA) infrastructure. Senator Klobuchar will direct the VHA to use data on private care usage only as a means to help guide investments in its own growth, not as a way to further privatize its core functions.
Strengthen the National Science Foundation and National Institutes of Health. Senator Klobuchar will fully support the National Science Foundation and ensure that research decisions are being made by researchers and scientists, not politicians. She will also bolster research at the National Institutes of Health and research into cancer, including breast cancer, which the Senator has long supported.
Expand apprenticeships. Senator Klobuchar will direct her Secretary of Labor to analyze the use of apprenticeships for in-demand occupations, launch a nationwide campaign, and expand apprenticeship opportunities and benefits with the goal of doubling the number of apprenticeships to over a million by the end of her first term.
Reinstate joint employer rules that protect workers’ rights. While the Trump Administration attempted to rewrite the “joint employment” standard, Senator Klobuchar will restore guidance recognizing the responsibilities of joint employers to their employees.
End the Trump Administration’s censoring of climate science. Senator Klobuchar will end Trump Administration efforts to censor climate science through actions like deleting climate-focused websites, removing the phrase “climate change” from reports, and preventing government scientists from attending conferences on climate change.
Set ambitious goals to reduce the carbon footprint of the federal government. The federal government has a significant carbon footprint. As President, Senator Klobuchar will set ambitious goals to increase the efficiency of federal buildings, data centers, and vehicles, reduce water consumption, and increase the use of renewable energy.
Reassess the granting of Medicaid waivers, including states that have privatized Medicaid. Senator Klobuchar will conduct a reassessment of the granting of Medicaid waivers for states that wish to privatize the program and impose discriminatory work requirements.
Restore disclosure rules that counter workers’ organizing efforts. Senator Klobuchar will restore a rule rescinded by President Trump mandating public disclosure when employers hire consultants to counter workers’ union organizing efforts.
Prevent federal funding from being used to arm teachers. The Trump Administration has indicated that it would consider providing federal funding to arm teachers. Senator Klobuchar will prevent any federal funding from being used for arming teachers.
Impose full sanctions on Russia for hostile act against the United States and its allies. In 2017, Congress passed legislation providing additional authorities for the President to impose sanctions on Russia in response to its election interference and other aggressive actions. The Trump Administration has resisted full implementation of these sanctions. Senator Klobuchar will use these authorities to the fullest extent possible to impose serious costs on the Putin regime and its enablers for hostile acts against the United States and our allies.
Improve train safety. The Trump Administration blocked a proposal to require two-person train crews for safety. Senator Klobuchar will direct the Department of Transportation to restart this rulemaking and she will also restore a number of rules to improve train safety.
Support Israel and work toward a two-state solution. Senator Klobuchar believes that Israel is one of America’s strongest and most enduring allies and a beacon of democracy in the Middle East. She is committed to fighting for a strong U.S. — Israel relationship and a secure Israel. And she will also get back to a meaningful peace process that combines — not separates — the political and economic tracks, has buy-in from Israelis, Palestinians, and the Arab world, and ultimately leads to direct negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians themselves that can lead to a two-state solution.
Protect students from discrimination and violence. Senator Klobuchar will repeal Title IX regulations proposed under the Trump Administration and restore guidance reminding universities of their obligation to protect students from sexual violence.
Direct the Department of Defense and VA to track servicemembers and veterans exposed to toxic chemicals. Currently, servicemembers’ exposure to toxic chemicals such as mold, caustic fumes, open air burn pits, and airborne chemicals during military operations are not being properly documented and tracked by the Defense Department or VA. Senator Klobuchar would direct these agencies to record any environmental health hazard exposure in a servicemember’s records during deployment, and the record would then follow the servicemember through his or her career and into veteran status.
Expand loans for and investments in local communities in need. For the past 40 years, the Community Reinvestment Act has encouraged financial institutions to make loans and investment in local communities, especially low-income and minority communities. Senator Klobuchar will protect the CRA and instruct financial regulators to conduct greater outreach to assess the true credit needs of their communities.
Overhaul ethics rules for White House employees and other senior officials. Senator Klobuchar will make clear that the President and Vice President must follow our conflict of interest laws, do more to investigate foreign agents who lobby in the United States, give the Office of Government Ethics more enforcement power, and provide additional protections for all Special Counsels.
Ensure that the President is not above the law. Senator Klobuchar will instruct the Justice Department to withdraw the Office of Legal Counsel’s opinions prohibiting the indictment of a sitting president.
Support and strengthen the Economic Development Administration. The Economic Development Administration works directly with communities and regions to promote competitiveness and innovation. It has a proven track record of success and on average every $1 of EDA infrastructure funding generates $15 in private investment. Still, the Trump Administration repeatedly proposed eliminating the agency. Senator Klobuchar will ensure the agency has the resources to carry out its mission.
Restore reporting requirements of civilian casualties. Senator Klobuchar will issue an Executive Order restoring requirements for the release an annual report on the strikes undertaken by the U.S. military and Central Intelligence Agency outside of war zones and assessments of military and civilian deaths resulting from those strikes.
Work to re-enter the Iran nuclear agreement. The 2015 nuclear agreement imposed verifiable limits on Iran’s nuclear program that would prevent it from building a nuclear weapon. Senator Klobuchar will negotiate to bring the United States back into the nuclear agreement with the goal of avoiding war and a nuclear-armed Iran.
Connect more families to housing in higher opportunity neighborhoods. Senator Klobuchar would expand the pilot for mobility housing vouchers that allow families with children to use their vouchers in higher opportunity neighborhoods.
Prosecute unscrupulous payday lenders. Senator Klobuchar will direct the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Justice Department and other agencies to prosecute unscrupulous payday lenders that engage in predatory practices and charge customers exorbitant interest rates.
Undertake a comprehensive review and restore environmental protections repealed by the Trump Administration. The Trump Administration has revoked dozens of guidance documents and rules that protect people’s safety, health and the environment when it comes to our power plants, oil refineries, national parks and wildlife refuges, offshore drilling, pipelines, and oil and gas development. Senator Klobuchar will undertake a thorough review of all the repealed guidance and rules, and work to restore our environmental and safety protections.
Ensure fair labor practices and safe workplaces for federal contractors. Senator Klobuchar will restore policies ensuring fair pay and safe workplaces for federal contractors.
Protect health care workers’ right to organize. Senator Klobuchar will rescind an anti-union regulatory change enacted by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services that prevents union dues from being deducted from Medicaid-funded paychecks of home health care workers.
Direct the Department of Health and Human Services to consider VHA facilities when designating Health Professional Shortage Areas. Senator Klobuchar has long pressed for HHS to consider adding VHA facilities as Health Professional Shortage areas. Once designated, these facilities have access to health professional students with scholarships and loan forgiveness who pledge to practice in the program for at least two years. As President, Senator Klobuchar would direct HHS to revise its current regulations for defining Health Professional Shortage areas to include VHA facilities.
Stop the diversion of funds needed to modernize our military bases from being used for the border wall. President Trump is diverting funding meant for modernizing our military bases in order to build his border wall. Senator Klobuchar will rescind his national emergency declaration and return funding for its intended purpose.
Visit our troops stationed in combat zones. Visiting our military servicemembers serving in harm’s way is a long-standing Presidential tradition. Senator Klobuchar will visit U.S. troops in combat zones within her first 100 days in office.
Reopen international U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services offices. The Trump Administration is shutting down international USCIS offices — which deal primarily with international adoptions, family visa applications, petitions for citizenship for military members stationed in foreign countries, and citizenship applications, along with help on refugee processing and investigations of fraud. Senator Klobuchar will direct USCIS to reopen its international offices.
Reduce State Department vacancies. Senator Klobuchar will immediately direct her Secretary of State to accelerate hiring for key positions.
Prevent people with severe mental illness from acquiring guns. Senator Klobuchar will restore a rule requiring the Social Security Administration to submit records of people with severe mental illness to the FBI’s National Instant Criminal Background Check System.
Curtail arms transfers and other support for the war in Yemen. Saudi and UAE military operations in Yemen have killed thousands of civilians and contributed to a humanitarian crisis that has left millions displaced and starving. The conflict shows no signs of ending, but the Trump Administration continues to go to extraordinary lengths to provide weapons and other support to Saudi Arabia and the UAE, including circumventing the standard Congressional approval processes. Senator Klobuchar will order a stop to arms transfers and support to the Saudi and Emirati forces until a negotiated settlement to the conflict is achieved.
Reinstate visas for same-sex partners of foreign diplomats. Senator Klobuchar will reverse the Trump Administration policy change of no longer issue family visas to same-sex partners of foreign diplomats or employees of international organizations who work in the United States.
Renew efforts to prevent another financial crisis. The Office of Financial Research, an independent bureau within the Treasury Department, was created by the Dodd-Frank Act to collect information on financial system risks, perform long-term research, and develop risk measurement and monitoring tools to help prevent future financial crises. Senator Klobuchar will restore the mission and stature of the office.
Protect funding for the Northern Triangle. Senator Klobuchar will end all Administration discussions to cut off direct assistance funding for Northern Triangle countries of Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala, recognizing that the cuts present a serious risk to our national security and undermine efforts to address the underlying conditions driving migration to the United States.
Crack down on money laundering and tax evasion. Senator Klobuchar will crack down on money laundering and tax evasion by empowering Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network to aggressively implement new rules for identifying the “true” owner of financial accounts, especially large accounts used in financial transactions where the incidence of fraud and tax evasion is high. And she will call on Congress to enact legislation imposing greater disclosure requirements.
Protect retiree pensions. The Kline-Miller Multiemployer Pension Reform Act of 2014 (MPRA) allows underfunded multiemployer pension plans to request permission from the Treasury Department to reduce retiree benefits in order to improve their financial condition. Senator Klobuchar believes retirees are entitled to the benefits they’ve earned during their working lives and will recommend that Treasury heighten the scrutiny of any applications to reduce retiree benefits under MPRA.
Combat segregation in housing. Senator Klobuchar will suspend Housing and Urban Development Secretary Carson’s proposed changes to the Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing rule, which would weaken efforts to combat segregation in housing policy.
Invest in adult basic education. Senator Klobuchar will reverse President’s Trump proposal to cut basic education programs for adults, and launch an initiative focused on increasing opportunities for adults to master literacy and basic math skills.
Restore consumer protections. Senator Klobuchar will direct the Department of Commerce, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Federal Trade Commission, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Federal Communications Commission, Department of Transportation and other consumer protection agencies to re-evaluate any Trump Administration actions that have weakened protections for consumers.
Maintain protest rights on public property in Washington, DC. Senator Klobuchar will end the Trump Administration attempts to limit protest rights in Washington, DC, like closing 80 percent of the White House sidewalk and putting new limits on spontaneous demonstrations.
Prevent abuses by IRS private debt collectors. Reports suggest that the IRS private debt collectors have abused and harassed low-income taxpayers whose tax debts are relatively small. Senator Klobuchar will overhaul the program and limit these abuses.
Invest in Alzheimer’s research. Senator Klobuchar will commit to preventing, treating and facilitating a cure for Alzheimer’s disease, with the goal of putting us on a path toward developing a cure and treatment by 2025. She will also immediately expand initiatives that provide support for family caregivers.
End the Justice Department’s reliance on private prisons. As President, Senator Klobuchar will phase out the use of private prisons by directing the Department of Justice to decline to renew or reduce the scope of contracts when the contract reaches its end.
Restore national monuments. Senator Klobuchar will restore the boundaries of Bears Ears National Monument and Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument to protect their ecological and the tribal cultural significance and undertake a review of other boundary adjustment and management changes initiated by the Trump Administration.
Prioritize health care delivery system reform to reduce health care costs. Senator Klobuchar will immediately identify value-based delivery system reforms, including in Medicare and Medicaid, and she will create incentives for employers and insurers to expand new payment models.
Expand the open enrollment period for health insurance under the Affordable Care Act so more people can get insurance coverage. Rather than shortening the open enrollment period on the exchanges from November 1st to December 15th, which happened under the Trump Administration, Senator Klobuchar will expand the open enrollment period for exchange enrollment so more people can access health insurance.
Investigate deceptive online travel practices that hurt consumers. Senator Klobuchar will direct the Federal Trade Commission and Department of Transportation to investigate deceptive and fraudulent practices by online travel booking websites.
We must commit ourselves to protecting our environment and preserving our natural resources for generations to come. Environmental conservation is a fundamental part of Minnesota’s heritage – and it is part of my own family’s heritage, too. Like most Minnesotans, I grew up in a family that values the outdoors. My grandfather from northern Minnesota was an avid hunter. My dad is a bicyclist, mountain climber, and all-around outdoorsman, and my mom always liked to fish and hike. When I was growing up, we never took a family vacation that didn’t involve a tent or a cabin!

As your senator, I believe a major part of my job includes ensuring that we have the right policies to protect the natural resources we enjoy in Minnesota – our lakes, rivers, and wetlands, our forests and prairies, our wildlife habitats, and abundant farmland. It is our responsibility to pass on this Minnesota way of life to future generations with responsible conservation of our national resources and smart policies that allow our outdoor recreation, fishing, and hunting industries to thrive. That is why I am dedicated to promoting responsible policies that counter climate change, preserve our farmlands, reduce flooding dangers, and keep our air and water clean.

Minnesotans also understand the need for a comprehensive energy strategy that puts America back in control of our energy supply. We need to chart a new energy future–one that creates jobs, reduces our dependence on foreign oil, increases renewable energy production, keeps energy costs affordable for all Americans, and responds to the challenges of global climate change.

This energy future must be based on a combination of homegrown energy sources, new energy technologies, and energy efficiency measures. In Minnesota, we have the talent and know-how to innovate and the natural resources to propel our economy forward. I believe this is a great opportunity to meet our nation’s energy demands and promote economic development across America.

By harnessing our homegrown energy potential and preserving the natural resources that make Minnesota such a special place for everyone, our state can continue to be a shining example for the rest of the country, showing that strong energy and environmental policies can go hand-in hand with a strong economy.

As Minnesota’s U.S. senator, I will continue to focus on these priorities:

Combating climate change. We have received warning after warning about the devastating consequences of climate change that are coming much sooner than expected. There is now a scientific consensus that climate change is having an impact on our world and it is clear that inaction is not an option for our economy, for our environment, for our country, and for our world. I support a comprehensive approach that would reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote the development of energy efficient technologies and homegrown energy resources without burdening our farmers and small businesses. As a member of the Senate Climate Action Taskforce, I am fighting to ensure that efforts to address the threat of climate change are a part of our nation’s energy and environmental policy, and I believe that we must work toward achieving 100 percent net-zero emissions by 2050. I strongly support the Paris Climate Agreement and have pushed the Administration to rejoin the Agreement. I also believe that we must reinstate the Clean Power Plan rules and gas mileage standards that have been reversed by this Administration. In addition, I have opposed cabinet members who doubt the science and deny climate change is occurring.

Keeping our air and water clean. Minnesota has some of the strongest pollution control standards in the country. Residents across our state are concerned about the negative impacts of mercury contamination and other pollutants that affect our public health and natural resources. Because pollution does not stop at state lines, we need strong federal standards to match Minnesota’s leadership and that is why I have opposed this Administration’s attempts to roll back clean air and water rules.

Strengthening our water infrastructure. Providing communities with clean drinking water and flood protection is critical. Many rural communities across Minnesota are unable to shoulder the financial burden of upgrading or reconstructing key infrastructure projects. We need to invest in the proper infrastructure to keep communities strong and help them continue to grow.

Preserving open spaces and native wildlife. Outdoor recreation contributes billions of dollars to Minnesota’s economy. We need policies that preserve our open spaces, farmlands, and hunting lands, while protecting vital wetlands so that we can maintain important wildlife habitats and reduce flooding dangers.

Protecting the Great Lakes. Minnesota is home to Lake Superior, the largest of the Great Lakes and the largest freshwater lake in the world. Lake Superior and the Great Lakes as a whole are vital to Minnesota’s environment and economy. As one of the Vice Chairs of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, I will continue supporting our shipping, boating, and fishing industries while pursuing responsible policies that keep our waters clean and clear of invasive species like invasive carp and zebra mussels.

Promoting the development of homegrown renewable energy. Minnesota is at the forefront of ethanol, biodiesel, and wind energy production and led the nation in 2007 by adopting a renewable energy standard that requires electric utilities to obtain 25 percent of their electricity from renewable sources like wind, solar, and biomass by the year 2025. We are well on our way toward meeting this goal as more than 21 percent of Minnesota’s electricity comes from renewable sources. This policy has helped stimulate renewable development throughout Minnesota, bringing in new investment and opportunities to both rural and urban areas. Our nation needs to follow Minnesota’s lead by adopting national standards for renewable energy and by providing consumers more choices at the gas pump.

Increasing energy efficiency. As former Energy Secretary Steven Chu noted, improving efficiency in vehicles, buildings, and appliances isn’t just the “low-hanging fruit” – it’s the fruit that’s rolling on the ground. Promoting energy efficiency is good for business, good for consumers, and good for our economy. One example is my Nonprofit Energy Efficiency Act that I’ve worked on with Senator Hoeven from North Dakota. The bill empowers the nonprofit community to make energy-efficiency improvements and help both our environment and our local communities by promoting greater energy savings and efficiency.

Since coming to the Senate, I have fought for new energy policies and strong measures to protect our environment and natural resources:

Protecting our Environment and Natural Resources

Combating Climate Change. I support a comprehensive approach that would reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote the development of energy efficient technologies and homegrown energy—and that would put us on a path to achieving 100 percent net-zero emissions by 2050. As a member of the Senate Climate Action Taskforce, I am fighting to ensure that efforts to address the threat of climate change are a part of our nation’s energy and environmental policy. I strongly supported the Paris climate agreement and have criticized this Administration’s decision to leave that agreement. I also believe that we must reinstate the Clean Power Plan rules and gas mileage standards that have been reversed by this Administration. I have introduced and supported several bills that would reduce greenhouse gases, and I am leading legislation to increase the information available to federal government offices about the greenhouse gas emissions associated with public projects in order to boost the competitiveness of sustainably produced American-made goods and reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout global supply chains. I also led a Senate resolution recognizing that global climate change is occurring and will continue to pose ongoing risks and challenges to our country unless we take action. I have opposed Trump Administration nominees who deny the science of climate change. The first bill I ever introduced required businesses to record and make public their carbon emissions. That’s because I wanted to make one important point: climate change legislation must be a major priority. The cause has grown even more urgent.

Improving our water infrastructure. In 2014, 2016, and 2018, I supported the reauthorization of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act that included provisions vital to Minnesota. This legislation makes crucial investments in our ports and harbors, such as the Port of Duluth, upgrades the locks and dams on the inland waterway system and moves forward with critical flood protection, including for Fargo-Moorhead and Roseau. The 2016 reauthorization included my legislation to reauthorize and fund the Great Lakes Fish & Wildlife Restoration Act which provides research, restoration, and conservation of fish and wildlife resources and their habitats in the Great Lakes basin. The 2014 Farm Bill also included an amendment I led with Senators Hoeven and Heitkamp to provide an additional $100 million to help address the backlog of water and wastewater projects for rural communities at the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Protecting the Great Lakes and Upper Mississippi River watershed. I was an original cosponsor of the Great Lakes Legacy Act of 2008, which bolstered pollution clean-up efforts in the Great Lakes. I am also an original cosponsor of the Great Lakes Ecological and Economic Protection Act, which will build on and continue the successful clean-up efforts established by the Great Lakes Legacy Act. And I have authored the Upper Mississippi River Protection Act, which aims to help reduce pollution in the Upper Mississippi River. As one of the Vice Chairs of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, enhancing the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes is one of my top priorities.

Keeping aquatic invasive species out of Minnesota’s rivers and lakes. I was an original cosponsor of bipartisan legislation, signed into law in December of 2011, which prohibited the importation and transportation of invasive carp. In 2014, I introduced and passed the Upper Mississippi CARP Act that fought the spread of invasive carp in Minnesota’s waterways by authorizing the Army Corps of Engineers to close the St. Anthony Falls Dam if invasive carp are found in certain areas. And I’ve worked with Representative Erik Paulsen to upgrade the Coon Rapids Dam, which has been identified as an effective barrier for preventing the spread of invasive carp up the Mississippi River watershed. I also joined senators in introducing legislation to help the Army Corps of Engineers evaluate a hydrologic barrier to block the spread of invasive carp in the waterways connecting the Great Lakes and alternatives for boating traffic.

Strengthening the Clean Air Act. I was an original cosponsor of the bipartisan Clean Air Act Amendments of 2010 that would require power plants to cut air pollution – such as mercury and ozone emissions – by 50 to 90 percent over the next five years. I also voted against an amendment that would have blocked the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from moving forward with the Cross State Air Pollution rule that helps protect Minnesotans from power plant pollution from other states. I also fought against attempts in the Senate to undermine the Clean Air Act and invalidate the standards that reduce pollution from mercury and other hazardous chemicals. I have opposed this Administration’s attempts to delay and reverse oil and gas methane pollution standards.

Expanding our nation’s wilderness areas. I pushed for passage of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 that constituted the largest expansion of our nation’s wilderness in 15 years. Through this legislation, we protected two million more acres of national Wilderness Areas and more than 1,000 miles of national Wild and Scenic Rivers. I have also cosponsored legislation to fully fund the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) and have worked to expand service-learning opportunities that help restore America’s natural, recreational, and scenic resources. I strongly oppose this Administration’s proposed budget cuts to the LWCF and the Department of the Interior. These cuts hurt rural communities and the protection of our public parks and lands.

Conserving our natural resources. Conservation programs in the Farm Bill provide the tools for farmers and ranchers in Minnesota to conserve sensitive lands and promote farming practices that reduce soil erosion and improve air and water quality. Minnesota consistently ranks in the top five states for conservation program enrollment. The Farm Bill protects the important programs Minnesota producers use to keep our soil healthy and our water clean. As a member of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry Committee, I am committed to strengthening our conservation programs. That’s why I introduced legislation with Senator Thune from South Dakota to protect native prairie by making changes to the crop insurance program to reduce the incentive to grow crops for the first time on native prairie. I have also introduced legislation to help farmers and land-grant universities better utilize USDA’s conservation data so they can apply conservation practices in an effective way to improve the environment.

Supporting Minnesota tourism and outdoor recreation. Tourism, including outdoor recreation, is Minnesota’s fifth largest industry generating $12.5 billion in sales and nearly 11 percent of the state’s total private sector employment. As co-chair of the Senate Tourism Caucus and the former chair of the Senate subcommittee that oversees the U.S. tourism industry, I’ve fought to cut red tape and reduce delays to help promote tourism. I pushed to pass the Travel Promotion Act of 2010 into law which created Brand USA, a public-private partnership that promotes international travel to the United States. In 2016, Brand USA generated more than 1 million additional visitors who spent an estimated $4 billion, strengthening local businesses and boosting economic growth. Finally, I led the bipartisan effort to reauthorize the Travel Promotion Act in 2014 so that it can continue to build on its progress through at least 2020.

Protecting consumers from unsafe wood imports and supporting our timber producers. I authored the bipartisan Formaldehyde Standards for Composite Wood Act, signed into law in 2009, to protect consumers from potentially hazardous levels of formaldehyde in composite wood products and to ensure the U.S. timber industry is on a level playing field with foreign competitors. I continue to push the Environmental Protection Agency to fully implement this law and hold importers accountable and keep our families safe. I have also testified at the International Trade Commission to press for cracking down on unfair subsidization of paper imports from Canada, China, and other countries around the world. I introduced bipartisan legislation with Senator Daines from Montana to improve the health of our nation’s forests and reduce the risk of wildfire on federal, state, county, tribal, and private lands in proximity to one another. This bill will improve water quality, protect wildlife habitat, and enhance opportunities for the production of wood products.

Reforming our nation’s toxic chemicals policy. Our country’s primary law regulating the production and use of chemicals hadn’t been updated since its passage in 1976. I supported reforms that would keep our children and families safe from toxic substances while providing businesses clear standards for developing new products. I was a cosponsor of the Senate bill that updated the Toxic Substances Control Act, which was signed into law in June 2016.
New Energy Policies

Expanding the market for homegrown biofuels. As a member of the Senate Commerce and Agriculture Committees, I worked on the bipartisan bill to ensure that the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 included provisions requiring a significant increase in biofuel production by the year 2022. This law also included new provisions to promote biofuel infrastructure and the installation of blender pumps at gas stations across the country, which will provide consumers with the choice of using higher blends of ethanol. USDA announced in 2015 that Minnesota would receive support to install approximately 620 pumps – the third most of all states receiving grant money. The investment will boost local economies across Minnesota, give drivers more choices at the pump and reduce dependence on foreign oil. As a member of the Farm Bill conference committee, I worked to ensure the 2014 Farm Bill included a strong energy title to allow our farmers to continue to develop homegrown energy for our nation. I am also pushing to maintain a strong Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) that will help drive innovation and boost Minnesota’s economy while reducing our dependence on foreign oil. In recent years and under both Republican and Democratic administrations the EPA has proposed changes to the RFS that would hurt the biofuels industry by lowering the biofuels targets, discouraging investment and hurting jobs in rural communities across the country. I led meetings between Senators of both parties and former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy and White House Chief of Staff Denis McDonough to urge the Obama Administration to reverse the changes and maintain a strong RFS. I have consistently led bipartisan letters with Senator Chuck Grassley calling for a strong RFS.

Helping our farmers move to the next generation of farm-based biofuels. I have taken the lead in promoting the next generation of biofuel crops through my work on the Senate Agriculture Committee. I successfully included legislation in the 2008 Farm Bill to provide incentives for U.S. farmers to produce cellulosic ethanol made from dedicated energy crops like prairie grass and alfalfa and from agricultural residues and wood chips. I also introduced the Farm-to-Fuel Investment Act, which was included in the energy title of the 2008 Farm Bill, and fought to include a strong energy title in the 2014 and 2018 Farm Bills to expand homegrown renewable energy production. These bills provide incentives to produce ethanol made from Minnesota-based biomass and spur innovation that will support the development of third-generation biofuels that will provide our country with an alternative motor fuel, protect our soil and water quality, and provide new wildlife habitats. And I’m fighting for funding for the energy title, including strong funding for the Rural Energy for America Program (REAP), in the Farm Bill reauthorization.

Implementing the first automobile fuel efficiency upgrades in decades. I was part of a bipartisan group of senators that reached a compromise to pass the 2007 Energy Bill, which provided incentives to develop new, more efficient consumer technologies. From the next generation of hybrid and plug-in vehicles, to higher efficiency standards for appliances, to incentives for the design and construction of high-performance energy-efficient buildings, these initiatives are designed to reduce energy bills and save consumers money. I have supported efforts to increase the Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFÉ) standards and oppose this Administration’s efforts to scale them back.

Extending home energy tax credits, weatherization, heating assistance, and energy efficient products. The Weatherization Assistance Program is an important tool in reducing home energy costs. According to the National Association for State Community Services Programs, for every dollar spent, the Weatherization Program returns $2.72 in energy and non-energy benefits over the life of the weatherized home.

I supported the inclusion of tax credits for energy-efficient products in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and again in the Tax Relief Act of 2010. These credits reward homeowners who install energy-efficient products – such as new efficient windows, insulation, doors, roofs, and heating and cooling equipment – as well as credits for hybrid and electric vehicles. I supported the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, which extended the Investment Tax Credit for wind and other renewable resources, and the Production Tax Credit, which provides the renewable energy industry with the stability it needs to make long-term investments. I also supported the creation and extension of the biodiesel and renewable diesel incentives.

Creating stable incentives for the private sector to invest in renewable energy. I authored the bipartisan American Renewable Energy Act that called for long-term extensions of renewable energy production tax credits and a national renewable electricity standard of 25 percent by 2025. Provisions from this bill to extend production tax credits for renewable energy were included in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.

Increasing energy efficiency. I introduced the Nonprofit Energy Efficiency Act with Senator John Hoeven. This bipartisan bill empowers the nonprofit community to make energy-efficiency improvements to their buildings and offices, which helps our nonprofits save money through greater energy efficiency and helps the community. I also worked with Senator Hoeven to pass water heater efficiency legislation that enables rural electric power cooperatives and their members to continue to use energy-efficient water heaters in “demand response” conservation programs. This will allow cooperatives to optimize both their own energy management and the environmental benefits of these water heaters. I have also introduced a bipartisan bill with Senator Tillis that would direct the Federal Trade Commission to consider including Smart Grid capability on Energy Guide labels for products.