Whatever Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation ends up revealing about Russia’s efforts to subvert our democracy, one thing is already clear from the media attention this topic has received: America’s democratic institutions are highly vulnerable to foreign influence.
Foreign powers use three basic tools to interfere in democratic politics: cyber operations, disinformation and dark money. Thanks in part to Mueller’s indictments of members of Russia’s military intelligence agency (GRU) and the St. Petersburg troll farm known as the Internet Research Agency, we have begun to address election-related cyber attacks and foreign disinformation. But when it comes to foreign dark money – money from unknown foreign sources – we remain woefully unprepared.
The lack of transparency in our campaign finance system combined with extensive foreign money laundering creates a significant vulnerability for our democracy. We don’t know how much illicit money enters the United States from abroad or how much dark money enters American political campaigns, but in 2015, the Treasury Department estimated that $300 billion is laundered through the U.S. every year. If even a small fraction of that ends up in our political campaigns, it constitutes an unacceptable national security risk.
While foreign funding of campaigns is prohibited by federal statute, the body that enforces campaign finance laws – the Federal Election Commission (FEC) – lacks both teeth and resources. Sophisticated adversaries like Russia and China know how to bypass the ban on foreign funding by exploiting loopholes in the system and using layers of proxies to mask their activities, making it difficult for the FEC, the FBI, and the Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network to follow the money.
One of the key loopholes is the ability of so-called super PACs to accept money from U.S. subsidiaries of foreign corporations. And while super PACs are required to file financial disclosure reports, non-profit 501(c) organizations (for example, the National Rifle Association or the U.S. Chamber of Commerce) are not. So if a foreign entity transfers money to a 501(c), that organization can in turn contribute funds to a super PAC without disclosing the foreign origin of the money.
The last time Congress took on dark money was after 9/11, in the Patriot Act, when we made it illegal for banks to be “willfully blind” to money laundering and requiring them to verify their customers’ identities. But the lack of any requirement to disclose the beneficial (i.e. “true”) ownership of limited liability companies (LLCs) makes it easy for foreign entities to establish shell companies in the United States. These shell companies can then contribute to a 501(c), invest in real estate or channel money directly to a super PAC. Fortunately, there are steps we can take to secure our system and shine a light on these murky transactions.
In August, two dozen state attorneys general asked Congress to pass legislation to disclose the beneficial owners of LLCs. A federal solution to this issue is necessary because individual states compete for incorporation revenue and therefore have little incentive to reform on their own. In Nevada, for example, the process of registering a company has been described as “easier than getting a library card.” A federal requirement to disclose the true owners and controlling interests of LLCs would allow law enforcement to scrutinize the “ghost corporations” that pop up overnight in states like Nevada or Delaware – and that could be used to funnel dark money into our politics.
Real estate deals are also susceptible to foreign money laundering because they are largely exempt from the “know your customer” rules that apply to the banking industry. This allows foreign entities to use shell companies to park their wealth in the United States or to channel that money to U.S. political interests (for example, by purchasing real estate at above-market prices). Implementing more comprehensive disclosure requirements in high-end real estate and prohibiting all-cash sales above certain thresholds would help create transparency in this sector.
The fact that we don’t know exactly how much foreign dark money is being channeled into U.S. politics is precisely why we need to reduce our vulnerabilities. There is ample evidence of dark money penetrating other democracies, and no reason to believe we are immune from this risk. In 2004, for example, Lithuania’s president was impeached after the media disclosed that a Russian oligarch who contributed to his campaign later received Lithuanian citizenship. Just this past January, in Montenegro, a local politician was charged with laundering Russian funds to support a pro-Russian political party. In Australia, an intelligence report leaked in 2017 exposed pervasive Chinese financial influence in the country’s domestic politics. Similar allegations recently surfaced in New Zealand.
As we take on the threats posed by cyber attacks and disinformation from foreign actors, we can’t ignore the threat posed by foreign dark money. With a new Congress about to be sworn in, there’s an opportunity to finally end the permissive environment for foreign dark money in this country. Campaign finance reform is certainly a necessary part of the solution, but so too is disclosure of beneficial ownership and greater transparency in real estate transactions. As matters of national security, these are issues that should be of interest to both Democrats and Republicans who want to reduce our vulnerability to foreign corrupt influence.
During my eight years as vice president, leading U.S. engagement with our partners throughout the Western Hemisphere was among the most rewarding challenges in my portfolio. Initially, progress was slow. Trust between the United States and our neighbors was at a low, driven by disagreements over the war in Iraq, the aftershocks of a great recession, a widening rift over the United States’ long-standing Cuba policy, and an overall sense in the region that we had simply lost interest.
By the time President Obama and I left the White House, we had established a new foundation of cooperation for our region built around shared responsibility, respect and partnership. It included a broader and deeper relationship with Mexico, a global agenda for cooperation with Brazil, reinvigorated engagement with Central America, post-earthquake reconstruction in Haiti, restored diplomatic ties with Cuba, support for Colombia’s historic peace process, improved energy security in the Caribbean, expanded trade and collaborative relations with countries throughout the region.
This is not to say we were perfect—far from it. Other international issues competed for our attention and entrenched challenges of poverty, violence and corruption continued to stymie growth and opportunity, particularly in El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. But for the first time, it was possible to envision a hemisphere that was secure, middle class and democratic, from the northern reaches of Canada to the southern tip of Chile.
During the past two years, that foundation for cooperation has been needlessly yet determinedly destroyed. Our neighbors, including some of our closest allies and largest trading partners, have endured a torrent of antagonism from our president. Canada and Mexico have been repeatedly bullied, while Central American and Caribbean countries have been derided with derogatory epithets. The president has now twice canceled visits to Colombia, our key ally in regional security, and he has rolled back the travel and commerce that afforded Cuban entrepreneurs and families greater independence from the Communist state. The harrowing scenes we saw this past summer of children being torn from their parents’ arms at our borders will not soon be forgotten by any of our partners. And, this past April, President Trump became the first U.S. president to skip the Summit of the Americas, the premier regional forum established by the United States in 1994 to galvanize a regional agenda that corresponds with U.S. interests. In short, this administration has wantonly abdicated our leadership in the region.
Leadership Vacuum
Our disengagement comes at a time when others are stepping up in the region. China is now the largest or second-largest trading partner of virtually every country in South America’s southern cone, and the Chinese have successfully convinced the Dominican Republic, El Salvador and Panama to change their diplomatic recognition away from Taiwan. Russia too is expanding its reach throughout Latin America and the Caribbean. Our geopolitical rivals are eagerly filling the vacuum of leadership as the United States pulls back.
It is vital that we maintain our leadership role in the region—not because we fear competition, but because U.S. leadership is indispensable to addressing the persistent challenges that prevent our region from realizing its fullest potential. China and Russia seek economic and diplomatic benefits but do not invest in democratic institutions or good governance. We do, because we benefit from the success of our neighbors and we are impacted by their struggles.
If economies in Latin America aren’t growing because of corruption, if rampant violence drives people from their homes to seek safety elsewhere, or if autocrats undermine democratic institutions and abuse human rights in their countries, it affects us too. Refusing to lead—closing our border, hiding behind walls, pulling back from the region—will do nothing to help these countries address the root of these problems.
Take, for example, the problem of corruption. It’s a cancer that erodes the capacity of nations to govern, drives away crucial foreign investment and can metastasize into a crisis of legitimacy in fragile democracies. From the Panama Papers to Brazil’s “Operation Car Wash” scandal to the rampant cronyism in Venezuela and Nicaragua, we have ample evidence of how corruption undermines progress throughout the region. The people of Latin America are sick of the region’s systemic corruption.
Between 2014-2016, I visited Guatemala three times to support the work of the UN-backed anti-corruption commission in Guatemala, known as CICIG. I made it clear that U.S. funding for Guatemala hinged on CICIG being allowed to continue its work. In fact, when former Guatemalan President Otto Pérez Molina was subsequently arrested on corruption charges brought by CICIG, he blamed me. Our administration’s support—and intense personal engagement with regional leaders—was critical. For the first time, the people of Guatemala began to feel like no one was above the law.
Yet in August of 2018, when President Jimmy Morales announced that he would not renew CICIG’s mandate—flanked by military leadership, with U.S.-donated Army vehicles posted in a show of force outside CICIG’s headquarters and the U.S. Embassy—Secretary of State Pompeo called Morales to tell him that the United States supported Guatemala. There could not have been a clearer message to kleptocrats throughout the region that the United States is no longer in the anti-corruption business. That hurts all of us.
Security Requires Respect
Consider also the difficult question of migration, particularly from Central America, where so many are fleeing crime, violence, persecution and a lack of opportunity. Securing our borders, enforcing our immigration laws, and fulfilling our humanitarian obligations is a challenging mandate, but we can—and we must—do all three at once.
In the summer of 2014, President Obama asked me to lead our response when an estimated 68,000 unaccompanied minors came across the border.
Rather than implementing draconian policies or tear-gassing civilians, we worked closely with Congress to help the Central American governments address the root causes pushing people from their homes. We put together a $750 million program to help them combat corruption and human trafficking while increasing domestic revenue and tax collection—and we made our assistance conditional on results. During our final years at the White House, Honduras overhauled its police force to root out widespread corruption, Guatemala collected hundreds of millions of dollars from tax-evading companies and expanded cooperation between our transnational anti-gang units and Central American law enforcement resulted in successful operations like the May 2015 indictment of 37 members of the street gang MS-13 in Charlotte, North Carolina.
These are serious challenges that impact the security of U.S. citizens. They require serious and thoughtful leadership. Scapegoating immigrants may offer the hope of short-term political gain, but it doesn’t solve the problems or prevent more migrants from attempting to reach the United States. We need policies that reflect the heart and the dignity of our nation—policies that uphold our laws and the sanctity of our borders, as well as our international humanitarian obligations. We also need to invest the political capital necessary to reform our broken immigration system.
Finally, the United States needs to be an active partner to defend the democratic character of our region. This has been a persistent challenge—one the United States has not always risen to—but with the tides of nationalism and populism rising once more throughout the region, and growing threats from autocrats and their henchmen, principled U.S. leadership is needed more than ever.
Instead of respecting the will of their people, the governments of Nicolás Maduro in Venezuela and Daniel Ortega in Nicaragua have confronted peaceful protesters with force, even armed vigilantes. They have limited the freedoms of expression and assembly necessary for political dialogue and arrested their political opponents. In Venezuela, government officials have embezzled billions of dollars from government coffers, while everyday citizens struggle to find food and medicine. It is an affront to democratic values.
Yet, even sensible efforts by this administration to exert pressure on Maduro and Ortega have been undermined by politicization, faulty execution and clunky sloganeering. Stronger diplomatic efforts and intensified sanctions on Venezuela have been clouded by saber-rattling and misguided efforts to engage with coup plotters. Similar responses to the civil unrest and state repression earlier this year in Nicaragua produced little in the way of results as that country settles into an intolerable “new normal.” This administration has demonstrated its willingness to capitalize politically on crises, but actions like its continued deportation of Venezuelans and the attempted revocation of “temporary protected status” for Nicaraguans demonstrate little concern for the Venezuelan or Nicaraguan people.
Governments have a basic responsibility to respect the universal rights of their citizens. Our region embraces that precept in the Inter-American Democratic Charter—that means that all the countries of this hemisphere, including the United States and our friends and adversaries alike, have a duty to support the people of these countries. All our citizens want the same basic things: a job that pays a fair wage and puts food on the table, education for our children, security for our families, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, a sense of opportunity and the hope that tomorrow will be better than today. The region used to look to the United States on such matters. But if we tarnish our example, we must expect that they will look elsewhere.
Resilient Ties
The breakdown of U.S.-Latin American relations in such a short time is striking, but it is not beyond repair. The shared values and history that bind the U.S. together with Latin America and the Caribbean—as well as Canada—have proven durable and resilient through many missteps and recalibrations. But steps need to be taken—and soon—to ensure that the current breach does not deepen into a divide that damages U.S. relations with the hemisphere for a generation.
We need to ensure U.S. leadership continues to be a driving force for positive regional change that will enable all of our countries to prosper and grow. We must pursue the opportunities afforded by greater energy integration, continue to combat the scourge of corruption and share the benefits of trade more broadly, enhance our shared security and rebuild multilateral cooperation in the hemisphere. And we must make sure that when the next Summit of the Americas convenes in 2021, there will be a U.S. president at the table, ready to lead our region toward the future all our peoples deserve.
Charlottesville, Va., is home to the author of one of the great documents in human history. We know it by heart: “We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights.”
We’ve heard it so often, it’s almost a cliché. But it’s who we are. We haven’t always lived up to these ideals; Jefferson himself didn’t. But we have never before walked away from them.
Charlottesville is also home to a defining moment for this nation in the last few years. It was there on August of 2017 we saw Klansmen and white supremacists and neo-Nazis come out in the open, their crazed faces illuminated by torches, veins bulging, and bearing the fangs of racism. Chanting the same anti-Semitic bile heard across Europe in the ‘30s. And they were met by a courageous group of Americans, and a violent clash ensued and a brave young woman lost her life.
And that’s when we heard the words from the president of the United States that stunned the world and shocked the conscience of this nation. He said there were “some very fine people on both sides.” Very fine people on both sides?
With those words, the president of the United States assigned a moral equivalence between those spreading hate and those with the courage to stand against it. And in that moment, I knew the threat to this nation was unlike any I had ever seen in my lifetime.
I wrote at the time that we’re in the battle for the soul of this nation. Well, that’s even more true today. We are in the battle for the soul of this nation.
I believe history will look back on four years of this president and all he embraces as an aberrant moment in time. But if we give Donald Trump eight years in the White House, he will forever and fundamentally alter the character of this nation — who we are — and I cannot stand by and watch that happen.
The core values of this nation, our standing in the world, our very democracy, everything that has made America, America, is at stake.
That’s why today I’m announcing my candidacy for President of the United States.
Folks, America’s an idea, an idea that’s stronger than any army, bigger than any ocean, more powerful than any dictator or tyrant. It gives hope to the most desperate people on earth, it guarantees that everyone is treated with dignity and gives hate no safe harbor. It instills in every person in this country the belief that no matter where you start in life, there’s nothing you can’t achieve if you work at it.
Ladies and gentlemen, in less than a decade CNAS has built something impressive. It’s growing stronger and it’s getting more influential year by year.
And today I’m here to speak about a question that’s paramount in all of our minds, and that is: How should the next President handle the national security inheritance of the Obama administration that will be passed along in January?
And I want to say at the outset, you’d expect me to be more optimistic than maybe others you’ll hear from or have heard from. But I am truly optimistic about America’s future. I think we’re better positioned than any nation in the world by a long shot — any region in the world — to be the dominant political, economic, and military force for the better part of this next century.
And the choices the President and I have made over the past seven and a half years, they have been to quote the title of a book, very “Hard Choices,” choices that have required very difficult tradeoffs. We’ve positioned the United States at the forefront, though, I think of tremendous opportunity.
To divert just a second, Michelle said, I like Yeats. And I do. Well, this is the 100th anniversary of the Rising on Easter Sunday. And there is a line in his poem called Easter Sunday 1917 [sic*] that goes like this, and he’s trying to describe his Ireland at the moment. He said, “All’s changed; changed utterly. A terrible beauty has been born.”
This is one of the most informed audiences I could possibly be speaking to on this topic. But all has changed, changed utterly in the last 15 years.
We’re presented with an entirely new deck of cards. Some of the old cards are still there that have enormous consequence. But there’s many new things. Failed states, a whole range of things you all have heard about and talked about.
But I think with smart, sustained and steady American leadership, we can seize the opportunities that are existing and leave a more peaceful and more prosperous future to our children and grandchildren. And I really, truly believe that.
But if we turn inward, if we undermine our most important relationships, or seek soundbite solutions to defined by complexity — issues defined by complexity; if we forget who we are; if we begin to betray our values and embrace intolerance; I think we’ll squander all of the hard-earned progress, and we’ll squander the opportunities that exist for us today.
So today I’d like to take a little bit of time to describe to the world from where I sit 100 feet from the Oval Office and the stakes of the choices that lie ahead.
Let me start by making a couple things clear. One, the world in which we live today is considerably more complex and interconnected than it was a quarter of a century ago when the Cold War ended, to state the obvious. It is arguably more complex than it was even 15 years ago after 9/11. But at the same time, despite the complexities and the proliferation of new challenges, by almost any measure, the United States is stronger and more secure today than when President Obama and I took office in — January 20, 2009.
We steered the economy that was in collapse through an arduous recovery. And we’re poised to enter a period of significant resurgence. We’ve gone from crisis, to recovery, to on the verge of genuine resurgence if we seize the moment.
We remain the world’s leading economic power, and we will for some time. The next President has a tremendous opportunity to finish what was started, to amp up our rate of economic growth, and bring economic resurgence home to Americans all across the nation. We know how to grow the economy. We’ve done it before. Invest in education, job training, infrastructure. It’s not magic.
And there used to be bipartisan consensus on almost all of those things. Joe, did you ever think you’d see a day when Republicans opposed infrastructure modernization? We rank 27th in the world in transportation infrastructure. The United States of America!
If you want to see the eighth wonder of the world, go down and see the two new locks of the Panama Canal. Yet there’s only three ports from the Gulf to Maine that can accommodate these new super Panamax ships.
But a strong economy — I’ll never forget, I’ve been around so long, the first two years I served, Stuart Symington was still in the Senate. God, I’m getting old. But he had a refrain. He always talked about, our entire foreign policy rests on a strong, growing economy. It’s an obvious thing. A strong economy is the foundation of our unrivaled military, part of the layered defense we’ve built to keep America safe. And we are so tragically reminded again in Orlando where I visited last week of the dangers that exist. We have to remain vigilant against an increasing, diverse range of threats.
Throughout our administration we’ve kept laser focus on homeland security. Our intelligence and law enforcement professionals are coordinating and sharing information at an unprecedented level. We’ve invested billions of dollars since 9/11. And everyone wondered whether or not we really had made the progress we say we have made. All you got to do is compare it to what it is in Europe now, and compare what they’re now beginning to grapple with.
Our partners around the world are now sharing considerably more intelligence with us about the threats emanating from the region and from Europe; and coordinating all of us, in terms of things as basic as — I won’t go into the list in the interest of time — but just passenger records. Prior to Paris, we didn’t have access.
But our greatest strength, ultimately, and I want to get back to this, is not just the example of our power, but the power of our example. Standing up for the values protects us better than any barrier we could build between ourselves and the rest of the world because our values are what draws the world to our side. And that’s vital. Because the unrivaled network of alliances and partnerships that we have enables us to be an effective global leader. But only if we act consistent with our values.
As we continue to urge our allies to do more, denigrating our closest partners as liabilities is a serious and tragic mistake. The United States built the basic architecture of international order after the devastation of World War Two. And it has served us very, very well, and the world very well for the past seven decades.
That’s why we’ve invested so much energy to defend and extend the international rules of the road. It matters. We’ve signed historic arms control and nonproliferation agreements. We’ve led worldwide efforts to lock down nuclear materials, expand trade, protect the environment. And because of the steps we’ve taken no country is better positioned to be followed — we just need to be followed by the rest of the world — than we are.
Now, the next administration will make its own choices about how to wield American power, and how to direct our resources, but as I look forward to what they will inherit, I see three major areas that will define our engagement with the world in the coming decades. And that’s what I’d like to spend a few minutes talking about with you today.
First, seizing the possibilities that exist on both sides of the Pacific.
We are a Pacific power. I have spent more time I’m told than any world leader with President Xi. I’ve had over 25 hours in private dinners with him, just he and I, and an interpreter because of the arrangement that former President Hu and President Obama set up for us to get to know one another. I remember him asking me why we were doing what we were doing in the Pacific. I said, because we are Pacific power. We will remain a Pacific power. And I suggested that our being present was one of the reasons why they’ve been able to progress so much because of the stability that has been sustained as a consequence of our presence.
But starting right here in the Western Hemisphere, for the first time in history, it’s possible — possible — to imagine a hemisphere that is middle class, democratic, and secure from the northern reaches of Canada to Chile’s southern tip. That’s why the President turned to me one day — as he often does — and said, Joe, you do the hemisphere. Like, okay, Mr. President. You think I’m joking? I’m not joking. You do the hemisphere. He said jokingly — he said, there’s not much of a time zone change. You can do it on the weekends, and you make friends easily. So just go.
I hope he was kidding. But look, one of the reasons why we prioritize improving relationships with our neighbors, including the opening of Cuba, is our standing in the hemisphere has never been better. The quote I used when I first made a speech at the State Department with a lot of the hemispheric leaders there, I said, it’s no longer do we look at what we can do for you, it’s what we can do with you.
It matters — to go back to the original thesis, it matters how you treat other nations, the respect your show or don’t show. Challenges surely remain. But today the reason is defined by opportunities — opportunities for greater trade and economic cooperation, especially with the open of the Panama Canal and the expansion; opportunities for greater energy integration, with the United States is exporting liquefied natural gas throughout the region and beyond. Opportunities to end the long-running conflicts in the civil war in Colombia. We also have a major new initiative in the Northern Triangle to deal with a whole range of problems, but also a whole range of opportunities.
Imagine Central America, democratic and secure. Imagine what it will mean to the hemisphere if that is able to be accomplished.
And we finally move beyond these stale ideological divides. The nations of our region are ready to work with us, as never before, to tackle shared challenges like stemming migration from Central America.
The next administration should harness this momentum and build on it. But if we build walls and disrespect our neighbors, we’ll quickly see all this progress evaporated, replaced by a return of anti-Americanism, of coercion, rift throughout our hemisphere. The choices that make our region less democratic, less prosperous, and less secure actively undermine our American national interest.
On the other side of the Pacific, we’ve recharged our engagement with Asia, the world’s most consequential region. The next administration is going to inherit treaty alliances with Australia, Japan, South Korea, the Philippines. And they’re stronger than they’ve ever been.
Maintaining our alliances isn’t always easy, to state the obvious. But the United States is wealthier and safer because the world’s strongest democracies are in our corner. It’s just common sense.
But we’ve also seized historic opportunities to build relationships beyond our traditional allies, fostering democratic transition in Burma, deepening our ties with Vietnam, managing relationships with Cuba [sic**], expanding our partnership with India, working with ASEAN to advance rules-based order. These relationships complement our alliances and further support economic, political, and military foundations of America’s Pacific — America being a Pacific power through the 21st century.
As home of half the world’s population and many of the world’s fastest growing economies, we cannot afford to ignore the opportunities that exist in Asia. That’s something every single CEO in America knows. And that’s why securing a Trans-Pacific Partnership has been our top priority in this administration. It is as much a foreign policy initiative, as it is an economic initiative. We’re not there. China will fill the vacuum just by the sheer weight and size. And it will not be in our interest.
And thanks to American leadership, the deal includes provisions that raise international standards for the protection workers, protection of workers’ rights, the environment, intellectual property.
But to be frank, to be frank, this deal has a long way to go to get passed through the United States Congress. Because whether in trade, maritime security in the South China Sea, or nuclear non-proliferation in Northeast Asia, the United States has to lead by writing the rules of the road in this vital region. Otherwise we leave a vacuum that our competitors will rush to fill.
That leads me to the second key point I’d like to make. The next President will have to manage complex relationships with regional powers, powers that have the capacity to contribute to the international order or to challenge it.
Nowhere is this more pointed than in our relationship with China.
As the world’s two largest economies, our fates are unavoidably intertwined. President Obama and I have made pragmatic choices that center our relationship with China in enhanced cooperation and responsible competition.
We have found some common ground. We’ve made some historic progress to address global challenges like climate change, epidemics, development, non-proliferation.
And we stand firm when we have real disagreements over issues like human rights, trade and investment, regional security. The next administration will also have to navigate the relationship with China marked at times by breakthrough cooperation and intense cooperation — competition. Sometimes, as with the mounting threat from North Korea, cooperation and competition with China will coexist. The notion that it will be all one or all the other is short-sighted and self-defeating.
The same is true with regard to Russia where our approach is — if appropriately managed — will be marked by a complex mix of enhanced deterrence, strategic stability, and, yes, necessary cooperation.
With our partners and allies, particularly in Europe, we’ve imposed real costs on Russia for its absolute outward aggression towards Ukraine.
Russia must uphold its commitments under the Minsk agreement. There can be no backing away from that. And sanctions should remain until they do.
We’re helping Ukraine implement vital economic reforms and root out corruption. It has not been easy. Corruption is endemic in all those former “Soviet states”. But by forcing them — forcing them? Coercing them — no, not coercing them, convincing them. In that order. It takes way a significant foreign policy weapon the Russians have used so well.
Meanwhile, our moves to strengthen our European alliance and bolster NATO continue to provide a bulwark against further Russian aggression. For years, we’ve encouraged Europe to spend more on defense, diversify their sources and supplies of energy. And now we’re starting to see some progress on these fronts, and these efforts have to continue. But there’s a lot of work to do.
Embracing Putin at a time of renewed Russian aggression I believe would call into question America’s longstanding commitment to Europe whole, free and at peace. But neither is it time to dust off the Cold War playbook. We’ll have to continue cooperating with Russia where our interests overlap. And as new military technologies arise — raise the stakes of miscalculation and escalation, we need channels with Moscow to clearly communicate our intentions.
There’s an appealing moral clarity in grouping the world into friend and foe. But in reality, progress so often demands we work with those with whom we do not see eye-to-eye.
That’s why we seized the possibility of moving beyond the decades of conflict in Iran to lock in a nuclear agreement.
Iran is neither a friend nor a partner. But our willingness to engage to protect our interests, combined with international political and economic pressure on Tehran to negotiate, peacefully removed one of the greatest threats to global security: The threat of a nuclear-armed Iran.
The deal speaks for itself. It’s working. Iran is complying. Its nuclear program has been substantially rolled back.
Inspectors are on the ground. We’re not home yet, but so far. Tearing that agreement up now would only leave Iran’s nuclear program unconstrained, increase the threats to Israel and our partners in the Gulf, and turn the international community against the United States, and sharply increase the prospects of another major war in the Middle East.
The nuclear deal was never meant to resolve all of our problems with Tehran. At the same time, it has opened other opportunities for engagement on narrow issues where our interests align.
Engaging Iran is neither incompatible with, nor at the expense of, America’s ironclad commitments to our allies and partners in the Middle East, including Israel. And we continue to counter Iran’s destabilizing activities in the region. And we will.
We have all the authorities necessary to hold Iran to account. Our targeted sanctions against their ballistic missile program, their support of terrorism, their human rights violations remain firmly in place. The past seven-an-a-half years have shown time and time again that a forward-leaning engagement with the world pays huge dividends.
This brings me to the third and final point I’d like to make: The imperative for the next President to deal with complex transnational threats — because in our hyper-connected world, events anywhere can impact everywhere.
Environmental disruptions, pathogens, computer viruses, malicious ideologies — these threats don’t respect borders. And no matter what others may claim, we cannot wall ourselves off from these challenges. Even in simpler times, isolationism never offered more than a false sense of security. True security reminds us to grapple with and requires us to grapple with globalization and an interdependent world to find common solutions that span borders.
That’s what we did when we rallied the world to address Ebola — the Ebola epidemic in West Africa last year. We rejected hysterical calls for quarantines and travel bans and built our response instead around hard facts and science.
We drew on all our strengths, from our military, to our health and developmental professionals. With tireless diplomacy, we brought the world along with us. And we saved hundreds of thousands of lives.
We took a similar approach toward climate change, harnessing science, technology, and relentless diplomacy to forge the Paris agreement. And in the process, we created an historic opportunity to head off a truly existential danger — an opportunity to head it off.
We laid the foundation for a global transition toward clean, renewable energy, through unprecedented investments at home
and bold initiatives like Power Africa abroad. And we’ve demonstrated American leadership can bring our allies together with emerging powers like China, India, and Brazil to protect our planet.
But these opportunities can only be seized if the next President follows the science, recognizes the danger of doing nothing, and musters the political will to address the threats.
Terrorism and violent extremism are yet another example of the virulent transnational dangers that requires sustained global response. Al-Qaeda, ISIL, other offshoots, they’re real threats.
The horrific events in Orlando, the attacks in San Bernardino, Paris, Brussels, and elsewhere remind us — including in Turkey — remind us over and over again that terrorism can happen anywhere and does happen anywhere.
At the same time, these terrorists cannot destroy the United States. They cannot bring down our civilization. We should never underestimate America’s strength or dismiss the inherent resilience of the American people. President Obama has never hesitated to use force to defend the American people when necessary.
Just ask Osama Bin Laden and al-Qaeda’s top operatives in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Or the leaders of al-Qaeda affiliates in Yemen and Somalia. Or more than 120 ISIL top leaders and commanders.
Terrorism must — and will — be defeated. But our campaign against violent extremism must be smart and has to remain consistent with American values. The use of force should be precise and proportional. There must be a clear mission that advances U.S. interests.
And whenever possible, we should act alongside allies and partners to share the burden and invest the international community in success.
And the results have to be sustainable. Lasting victory against al-Qaeda and ISIL requires viable, local forces to hold liberated areas, rebuild shattered communities, and govern effectively.
That’s why we’ve worked with more than three dozen nations to support and train Afghan forces and to hunt down al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups in their sanctuaries. That’s what we will continue to do so.
That’s why we’ve partnered with African nations, from Nigeria to Somalia to Tunisia, to go after al-Qaeda and ISIL affiliates.
In Iraq and Syria, we’ve built a 66-nation coalition to train local forces. And we’ve carried out more than 13,000 airstrikes. We’ve provided afflicted communities with billions in humanitarian and reconstruction assistance.
And our active diplomacy continues to encourage inclusive governance in Iraq and to try to identify a path to deescalate the war in Syria.
The results? Well, we’re winning and ISIL is losing.
Over the past two years ISIL has lost 47 percent of the territory it once held in Iraq and more than 20 percent in Syria. We’ve taken out thousands of frontline fighters in the battlefield. Foreign fighter flow is down 50 percent. They’ve lost millions in revenue.
But to be sure, ISIL is resilient and barbaric, fueled by a bitter ideology of destruction. Even as they retreat from territory in Iraq and Syria, we’ll have to keep pressuring on them in Libya and elsewhere, and take the fight to them in cyberspace.
Permanently defeating this scourge will likely take years.
And it will absolutely require us to keep the world on our side.
Parenthetically, I’d note that not but two years ago, we were talking about the establishment of a caliphate that they were well on their way of doing, how that was going to bring down Saudi Arabia, Jordan, bringing chaos to the Middle East beyond what exists now. The caliphate is not a reality. And the thought of it being a reality is being crushed. But they still can do damage — just like al Qaeda without having large swaths of territory is able to do serious damage. But adopting the tactics of our enemies, using torture, threatening to kill innocent family members, indiscriminately bombing civilian populations, that not only violates our values, it’s deeply, deeply damaging to our security.
There are 1.4 billion Muslims in the world. Some of the rhetoric I’m hearing sounds designed to radicalize all 1.4 billion.
How do we win this? How do we win this long-term fight without embracing and engaging and having allies in the Islamic community in the United States, among American citizens and emigres? How do we do this without allies in the Muslim world among Shiites and Sunnis?
Wielding the politics of fear and intolerance, like the proposal to ban Muslims from entering the United States, profiling Muslim Americans, slandering entire religious communities as complicit in terrorism, calls into question America’s status as the greatest democracy in the history of the world. And in the process, alienating 1.5 million [sic***] Muslims — the vast, vast majority of whom, at home and abroad, are peace-loving, doesn’t make the situation better. It makes it worse. And it plays into the very narrative of the extremists.
Last year, ISIL’s top leader Baghdadi revealed the goal of their attacks was to “Compel the Crusaders to actively destroy the gray zone themselves. Muslims in the West will quickly find themselves between one of two choices: Either apostatize or immigrate to the Islamic State and thereby escape persecution.”
How can it be said much clearer? ISIL wants to manufacture a clash of civilizations. They want Americans to view things in terms of us versus them. Why in God’s name are we giving them what they want? And besides, we’re so much better than that.
So let me conclude with what I said at the outset. Despite the many challenges ahead, we have more opportunities than ever before. I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s capacity to lead the world to a more prosperous and peaceful future.
But our leadership does not spring from some inherent American magic. It never has.
We’ve earned it — over and over again — through hard work, discipline, good judgement. It stems from our willingness to see challenges on the horizon and step forward first to meet them.
There’s that old expression that Tom Friedman used. He said, if you don’t visit the bad neighborhood, it will eventually visit you.
From our ability to lead by example and draw partners to our side, that’s what has always been America’s greatest capability. Not empty bluster. Not a sense of entitlement that fundamentally disrespects our partners. Not an attitude, an insecurity of a bully.
The United States cannot afford to draw back from our responsibilities now. There is simply too much at stake. We need a President who can unite the Western Hemisphere and work like hell trying; continue to build our alliances and partnerships in Asia; manage extremely complex relationships with China, Russia, and Iran; and lead the world to address transnational challenges, including the persistent threat of terrorism.
I believe this is one of five times in American history we find ourselves at an inflection point. The choices we make today will steer the future of our world for the next three decades. In this moment of uncertainty, the world desperately needs steady American leadership more than ever before.
Because when America leads, the way that only we can, guided by principle, grounded in our conviction that America does best when we make sure everyone does better, no nation can match us.
And one concluding point. The dysfunction in Washington is not only crippling in terms of everything from the Supreme Court to moving from recovery to resurgence. In the 42 years I’ve been engaged in the conduct of foreign policy, I’ve never seen it have as much negative impact on our ability to conduct our foreign policy.
Many of you here are extremely sophisticated and travel the world and have deep understandings of other parts of the world. I get sent by the President — I’ve traveled over 1.2 million miles just since being Vice President. When I’m sent, it’s usually because everybody knows whatever I say is it — because they know I speak for the President. There is never any question. And I mean never.
And so on the assignments I’ve been given over the last seven years, when I get sent to meet with a head of state, trying to convince them of a particular position, if we reach agreement, I literally — and Joe is with me a lot, and I’ve been with Joe a lot — I reach across the table and shake hands.
And here’s the response I get the last four years that I never ever, ever got before. They grab my hand and say, but, Mr. Vice President, can you deliver? Let me say it again: Can you deliver?
Because every single time friend, foe, or agnostic with whom we deal, when you make a deal, it requires them to take a chance. Translated into everyday English from Wilmington, Delaware, as, look, don’t ask me to walk out on this limb and take a political hit — even in a dictatorship — unless you assure me. I don’t doubt you. I don’t doubt the President. But can you get it done in Washington?
They understand our systems much better than Americans understand theirs.
So, folks, my hope is that not only will this presidential election be behind us, but that we will begin — because I think the vast majority of Republicans up on the Hill, as well as Democrats know this is not the way to do business. They know it.
Joe, I spoke with 17 Republican senators just on the Supreme Court. All 17 say, Joe, I know you’re right. But don’t ask me to move yet, Joe. This will happen to me.
The American public is sick and tired of the dysfunction. The instinct is to throw all the rascals out. But I’m convinced that we are in a domestic inflection point, too; that my colleagues are beginning to listen more closely to the pattern of the cadence of the political process out there. So my hope is these next four years will be much better positioned with a President who understands and Congress that can vehemently disagree, but ultimately concludes there has to be compromise. If that occurs, and it will occur, it may not occur in the next two years, but it will occur, there is not a single thing that we can’t do as a country.
I thank you all for being so gracious and listening, and I really — there’s so much talent out here, I just — if you’re ever going to be involved, man, this is the moment. This is the moment.
Thank you all so very, very much.
In over 45 years of working in global affairs, I’ve observed a simple truth: America’s ability to lead the world depends not just on the example of our power, but on the power of our example.
American democracy is rooted in the belief that every man, woman and child has equal rights to freedom and dignity. While the United States is far from perfect, we have never given up the struggle to grow closer to the ideals in our founding documents.
The constant American endeavor to live by our values is a great strength that has drawn generations of strivers and dreamers to the United States, enriching our population. Around the world, other nations follow our lead because they know that America does not simply protect its own interests, but tries to advance the aspirations of all.
This has stood as the foundation of American foreign policy throughout my political career — until recently.
Around the world, including in the United States, we are seeing the resurgence of a worldview that is closed off and clannish. President Trump keeps longstanding allies such as Germany at arm’s length, while expressing admiration for autocrats like Vladimir V. Putin who thwart democratic institutions.
Rather than building from a narrative of freedom and democracy that inspires nations to rally together, this White House casts global affairs as a zero-sum competition — for the United States to succeed, others must lose. Among the many problems that plague the Trump administration’s foreign policy, this line of thinking is perhaps the most disturbing.
During a speech in July, Mr. Trump said, “The fundamental question of our time is whether the West has the will to survive.” This statement divides the world into “us” and “them.” No American political figure has so narrowly defined our interests since the period between the world wars.
Mr. Trump’s shameful defense of the white nationalists and neo-Nazis who unleashed hatred and violence in Charlottesville, Va., further abnegated America’s moral leadership. Not since the Jim Crow era has an American president so misunderstood and misrepresented our values.
Most recently, the Trump administration’s order to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals — punishing young people brought to this country by their parents, many of whom know no home but the United States — betrays an unnecessary cruelty that further undermines America’s standing in the world.
When Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson said that it was important to “understand the difference between policy and values,” he wrote off the very thing that makes the United States exceptional. And at a time when democratic values are under siege around the globe — from populist attacks that undermine confidence in democratic institutions to leaders who try to bolster their power by closing the space for civil society and rolling back citizens’ rights — the world cannot afford to have America cede the field to illiberalism and intolerance.
Placing American democratic values back at the center of our foreign policy does not mean we should impose our principles abroad or refuse to talk with nations whose policies run counter to them. There will always be times when keeping Americans safe requires working with those whom we find distasteful. But even when we must make those hard choices, we can never forget who we are and the future we seek.
Reclaiming our values starts with standing up for them at home — inclusivity, tolerance, diversity, respect for the rule of law, freedom of speech, freedom of the press. If these are the democratic principles we wish to see around the world, America must be the first to model them.
These are also the values that tie us to our closest allies — the friends we depend on to address major global challenges. They must believe that the United States will continue to support them and to stand up for democracy.
Leading with our values also means that we speak out when nations violate their citizens’ rights. If leaders repress their own people, we must make clear that it constrains our ability to cooperate with them. We can meet our security imperatives without giving a green light to dictators who abuse universal human rights.
Finally, a foreign policy built on our values must stand firm against foreign powers that celebrate a perceived withdrawal of American leadership as an opportunity to increase their influence. Without the United States standing as a bulwark for global democracy, illiberal powers like Russia will take increasingly aggressive steps to disrupt the international order, bully their neighbors and return to a more divided world.
From the Marshall Plan after World War II to our alliances in East Asia, both Republican and Democratic officials have long embraced a vision of American leadership that fosters a more secure, inclusive and generous planet. That ideal made the world safer and more prosperous — for Americans and everyone else.
The international community still needs a strong, democratic America leading the way. And the good news is that the United States remains better positioned than any other country to shape the direction of the 21st century. But to succeed, we cannot abandon the tenets that we fought so hard to defend over the past seven decades — ideals that magnified American leadership and produced the greatest increase in global prosperity in history.
You cannot define Americans by what they look like, where they come from, whom they love or how they worship. Only our democratic values define us. And if we lose sight of this in our conduct at home or abroad, we jeopardize the respect that has made the United States the greatest nation on earth.
Nothing gives me more hope for the future than seeing my five grandchildren challenge expectations— They see breakthroughs in technology we can’t even yet imagine. But the only way they’ll get the chance to fulfill all that potential, is if we take drastic action right now to address the climate disaster facing the nation and our world. More severe storms and droughts, rising sea levels, warming temperatures, shrinking snow cover and ice sheets. It’s already happening. And science tells us that how we act or fail to act, in the next 12 years will determine the very livability of our planet. Yet today, President Trump denies the evidence
in front of his own eyes,
hides climate science produced by his own Administration, and actively works to roll back what progress we have already made. It’s reckless, it’s irresponsible, and it is unacceptable. So today, I’m announcing my plan for a Clean Energy Revolution— it outlines what we have to do to meet this challenge head-on and how we’re going to get there. We’re going to invest $1.7 trillion in securing our future so that, by 2050, the United States will be a 100 percent clean-energy economy with net-zero emissions. And—by the end of my first term— we’ll have an enforcement mechanism in place to make sure we stay on track to get there. We’re going to make record-breaking investments in researching and developing zero-carbon technologies so that America is the engine of the world’s clean energy economy— exporting cutting-edge equipment stamped “Made in the USA”
to help other nations reduce emissions, and mitigate and adapt. This initiative will create more than 10 million new good-paying jobs all across the clean economy in The United States of America. It’s an enormous opportunity— We’ll hold polluters accountable for the damage they've caused— particularly in low-income communities and communities of color. Not only due to climate change. But the pollution they are pumping in the air that is breathed and the water that is drunk in those communities. You know, we’re not going to forget the workers either. The workers who through dangerous and back-breaking labor, powered our industrial rise, mined and built our arsenal of democracy,
and fueled America’s prosperity throughout the 20th century. They’ve earned our thanks, our respect, and our support. Finally, we have to bring the world along with us. Global action requires American leadership, But the United States only accounts for only 15% of global carbon emissions. The rest of the world has to step up as well. On day one I will immediately rejoin the Paris Climate Accord. But that’s not sufficient. We need to dramatically accelerate our worldwide efforts to meet the intensity of this challenge we face So I’ll immediately get to work— leading a diplomatic initiative to get every nation to go beyond their initial commitment— to push our progress further, and faster. This is especially true for China— by far the world’s largest emitter of carbon.
We’ll not only hold their leaders accountable for reducing carbon output at home in their country, but make sure they stop financing billions of dollars of dirty fossil fuel projects all across Asia— And this will allow us to keep creating good-paying jobs right here at home, even as we raise our own standards. America once again will be able to stand proudly on the world stage And challenge every other nation to follow our example and our leadership. For more than three decades, I have led on this issue. I wrote one of the first climate change bills ever introduced in the United States Senate. As Vice President, I oversaw the single largest investment in clean energy in our nation’s history – over $90 billion. I fought along with President Obama to double the efficiency of our cars— Which would reduce our oil consumption by 12 billion barrels,
and for a Clean Power Plan—that limited carbon emissions from both existing and new power plants. As President, I will lead America – and the world –not only to confront the crisis in front of us – but to seize the opportunity it presents. I will use every authority available to me to drive progress. And I will not accept half-measures. Because making these revolutionary changes is going to take an incredible commitment at all levels, but I am absolutely confident, that’s what the American people want to do, and we can meet this challenge. Because this is what America does best—solve big problems, with big ideas. That’s who we are. That’s who we’ve been. We’re the United States of America. And there’s not a single thing we cannot do. And the world badly needs us to do it.
and I want to thank Chancellor Merkel of once again hosting us but even more for the speech that she that she gave this morning I as I said I've been coming for many years and many of you know me so let me say at the outset so there's no mistake I strongly support NATO I believe it's the single most significant military alliance in the history of the world and I think it's been the basis upon which we've been able to keep peace and stability for the past 70 years and
it is the heart of our collective security it's the basis upon which the United States is able to exercise its responsibilities in other parts of the world as well without a stable Atlantic Alliance everything in my view falls apart and I strongly strongly as I guess the majority of my colleagues I don't want to speak for anyone but my guess is they do as well believe and support the European Union strongly support the European Union an antidote to excessive
nationalism that twice before has torn this continent apart the European Union is more than an economic Union it is critical critical to security and stability time and again time and again this community is united and stood as a safeguard against the abuse of power by any one nation against the lapping wages of chaos that have threatened us whether it's containing the existing danger of an unchecked nuclear arms race or demonstrating our resolve to defeat
terrorism and its rotted-out rationale of violence and fear our unflagging commitment to NATO's core mission has allowed us to deter aggression among nations to feed ethnic cleansing and bolster our shared security and civility I might add today however our community stands at an inflection point that's proving providing a unique test for our solidarity and quite frankly for our future
ambassador Bert and I were talking about that a moment ago it literally literally is we're at an inflection point and I think everyone in this room no matter what country you represent understands that at least I hope we do not because the challenge is proliferating around the world are beyond our capacity to shape and Bend for the benefit of all humankind as we've done so often before but not because of the autocrats and who are destined because autocrats were
destined to tip the global balance in their favor and succeed in their efforts to divide us that's not the reason no it's true that we're navigating new relationships with a rising China and a declining but increasingly aggressive Russia China seeks to establish itself as a hegemon and a global power player and Russia is using every tool at our disposal to to sow discord and to stabilize the democracies in Europe including Ukraine where it's
still waging an act of war today in each case we're seeing more than just jockeying for geopolitical advantage in my view there's an ideological struggle as well that's going on a competition of systems competition of values it's the kind of competition that our transatlantic community our institutions and NATO itself was built to address at the end of World War two and yet in this environment for the first time in my memory we're being held back by
hesitancy and uncertainty I know that it's due in part to the perception of the United States itself is holding back and uncertain that we're pulling away from the world and from our leadership responsibilities and I know you heard a lot today about leadership but in my experience leadership only exists if somebody and others are with you leadership in the absence of people who are with you is not leadership and so to state the obvious while I
cannot speak today as an elected government official who's able to set policy I can't speak as a citizen I can speak as a citizen I can offer insight into my country I've spent the better part of the last two years traveling throughout the United States of America from Minnesota to Texas from Boston to Birmingham I spent time talking and listening to Americans and strong halls of liberal progressivism and in places where
Democrats are a rare commodity and I can assure you that the American people the ultimate wellspring of power in the United States of America remain committed to engaging the world with decency and respect that is the prevailing view among the American people to strengthening an advantage such as strengthening and advancing our hard-earned position as a leader of the free world the vast majority of Americans are proud of that
overwhelmingly to be sure there's anxiety about what the future holds and caution about what our rapidly changing world means to families who are being left behind you see the same things in your countries as well this fund this fourth Industrial Revolution is causing great anxiety and I think it's part of the reason for so much of our uncertainty but their answers which I will not go into today but the fact of the matter is the America I see is not
in wholesale retreat from the interests and values that have guided us time and again to be willing to shoulder our responsibilities of leadership in the 20th century and we can do that again we must do that again the America I see does not wish to turn our back in the world or our allies our closest allies indeed the American people understand that it's only by working in cooperation with our friends that we are going to be able to harness the forces of a rapidly
changing world to mitigate their downsides and turn them to our collective advantage the America I see and I mean is sincerely meeting some of a bottom my heart I think that's why I'm I'm assuming that's why so many members of Congress are here today America I see cherishes a free press democracy the rule of law it stands up to the aggression of dictators and against strongmen who ruled by coercion corruption and violence
oligarchs are the new weapon in the arsenal of these folks the America I see values basic human decency not snatching children from their parents or turning our back on refugees at our border America's no that's not right the American people understand please because it makes us embarrassing the American people know overwhelmingly that that's not right that's not who we are and when America leads by example at home we extend our moral authority to
lead abroad the American people understand that as well and so that's why there's such a so much upset in America about this what I call the the struggle for America's soul it goes beyond a single issue it goes to who we are what we stand for America is led not merely by the example of our power but by the power of our example and the example we're setting well I should stop the America I see doesn't embrace the self-defeating
tariffs and trade wars that are underway America was built on innovation and creativity we demand to be treated fairly but there is no one in the world anywhere in the world that were afraid to compete with if even there's close to a level playing field nowhere it's who we are how we define ourselves the America I see doesn't decry the science of a changing climate or deny the truth that's in front of our eyes America's the mayors I've missed
spokes in that my guess was 800 mayor the united states america don't hold many the number but the national mayor's conference and the governor's when we walked away from paris they said we're not walking away we are going to demand we meet those standards in our cities and our towns in our states they don't decry the science of a changing climate they're busy getting to work to protect their communities against more frequent more severe storms
the spread of wildfires and insect borne disease shrinking glaciers rising sea levels and record temperatures and you don't have to take my word for it there's plenty of data illustrating how widespread this feeling is among Americans the United States should not be the world's policeman but according to a recent Chicago Council survey 70% of the American people say it is best for the United States to take an active part in world affairs and that number
has only gone up in the last several years not down it's gone up and the support for NATO is one of those rare issues where Republicans and Democrats to things we can agree on NATO and the fight against cancer they're about the only two things right now but lots gonna change I hope but really and truly it's the nonpartisan view there was a vote in the House of Representatives as the leader can tell you as the speaker can tell you and overwhelmingly 357 222 no
votes to pass legislation that would prevent the United States from withdrawing from NATO there's overwhelming consensus among the political elected officials in both political parties and there's no doubt that the United States is prepared to inhabit the leadership role in the 21st century that we have so long filled on a global stage and indeed a role that the world I think presumptious me say I hope it doesn't come out the wrong way but I
believe the world still needs us to fill and you can count on the United States to do this because a simple reason it is overwhelmingly in our self-interest overwhelmingly in the self-interest of the United States of America it's beyond being Noble it's beyond being generous it is in our self-interest as it is in yours I'd respectfully suggest after World War two we made investments in security and prosperity the Security and Prosperity
of our allies that returned benefits to us many times over new markets for our products new new partners to meet complex global challenges new allies to deter aggression and to fight with us if in fact deterrence failed and it's still true today when terrorist organizations threaten the safety American citizens were able to ensure our own security because we do not fight them alone we fight them with you our oldest closest allies and
partners when outbreaks are disease ravaged populations in Africa and other parts of the world and spread across borders we contain them more effectively and efficiently because we coordinate with you we send doctors we send nurses equipment and a life-saving mechanism and medicines when the outbreaks cease when when autocrats seek to chip away at the faith in our institutions metal in our elections we present a unified front to demand to defend democratic values
that are the very foundation of our security prosperity in our position in the world what this is all about what's going on is to undermine confidence in democratic institutions that's the game that's what's that play when people are worried and concerned about their futures ladies and gentlemen when a bully illegally takes a neighbor's territory and violates arms control treaties that have been the pillar of our common security for three decades we
together condemn the flagrant violation of international norms strengthen both by our military capacity and our people unity and I'm so proud I'm so proud at the coalition that was put together here in Europe to respond to the aggression of Russia in Ukraine so this is the core of our identity the very character of the American spirit and our own self-interest and I promise you I promise you and as my mother would say this too shall pass
we will be back we will be back don't have any doubt about of course America being back doesn't mean going backwards simply returning to the policies now ill-suited to a forward march of global challenges or failing to learn from our mistakes we need leadership that sees what's coming over the horizon that takes steps to expand and strengthen our capacity and to meet any danger the ideas that underpin this conference a Europe whole free and at peace the north
atlantic treaty organization committed to collective security and the unquestioned pledge of an attack on one is an attack on all which is a sacred commitment that we all have made a sacred commitment we all have made those were revolutionary choices that our parents and our grandparents made it took courage to walk away from the world as it has always been mired in conflict hobbled by rivalries and take steps towards the world as it might be it took
vision to do that now we must once again some of the vision to make significant decisions about how to organize the world for the next 50 years and more NATO needs to be updated and modernized to keep us strong and United I think that starts with investing more in our alliance so we're better equipped to take on the existing threats that we face and those on the horizon but it won't be enough to simply strengthen a though as it is we need to make it
better expand our capacities deter and meet threats including those you to this century and part of that has to be looking for opportunities to cooperate with Democratic partners beyond North America and beyond Europe the free world is going to be called upon to do more than ever before taking on the new challenges of cyberspace addressing technologies like artificial intelligence would evolve more rapidly
than everyone ever thought they would countering new weapons of misinformation that's going to affect all of us every one of us that's why with the transatlantic partnership at its core we need we need in my view to reach out to our partners in East Asia to fortify the collective capabilities we share we need to integrate our friends in South America and Africa and reinvigorate the broader community of democracies than we have thus far
just as NATO enabled the United States and Europe to lead the twentieth century a reformed expanded institutional capacity should give us the tools we need to take on the looming challenges of the 21st century we can do this it is not beyond our capacity we can once more take steps towards the world as it might be indeed quite frankly as it must be and future generations are to enjoy the dividends of peace progress and prosperity a world that takes radical
action to address climate change that impacts will have on every single human being on this planet a world that sets a level playing field for global trade reduces inequities that increasingly is dividing our societies and prepares for dislocations that we'll continue to see as technology changes the nature of work a world that with decency and dignity joins together to address accelerating rates of migration humanitarian crises that are that are not going away and are
going to continue to impact all of our nations all of our nation's I just was asked by the president of Columbia Columbia to meet with him after he met with our president we were unable do it because I was coming here and he was going to New York and we long conversation we should all be looking not just that Columbia and the impact that migration has has is a consequence of the disillusion of in my view of Venezuela this is a this is a
worldwide responsibility just as what the migration patterns here in Europe are it's not any one country's responsibility a world that not only champions democracy in the context of our days but believes on the on the promise it delivers on the promise of democratic governance to improve our future rooting out corruption that strangles the rule of law and stymies democratic abilities to benefit their citizens all while undermining
democratic legitimacy that's the world that I see of enormous possibilities and achieving it I think is an urgent task that cannot wait our grandparents didn't wait why the hell should we why if this is not going to be measured a hundred years from now one of those inflection points in world history I don't know what will measure up to that definition as I said the world as I see it has enormous possibilities and achieving is an urgent task so we have to join
together and meet this call to leadership head-on to honor our commitments to one another we can't be divided not in our countries and not between in among our countries because if if the strength of our transatlantic alliance falters authoritarian powers will rush in to shape a world according to their interest not ours not ours so we have to work harder to connect the work we do here in Munich and London and Brussels Washington the United Nations
so that the daily lives of our people in our countries are more secure these same people who I met all across the United States who may feel disconnected and discounted ignored left behind they still believe as I do and I mean this I promise you they still believe as I do in the core values enshrined in our alliances and that believe they are worth defending because they're smart enough to know it's in their own naked self-interest as
well I'm not going to give up on them the United States will never give on our and give up on our allies we need you and I hope you think you need us thank you very much for listening mr. vice president thank you we needed to hear that speech thank you very much you and I had a brief discussion about NATO behind the scenes here ambassador Doug lute your ambassador President Obama's ambassador of NATO and
I presented a report yesterday which catalogues all the threats from Putin to Chinese technology to what do we do in Afghanistan we interviewed 60 people on both sides of the Atlantic number one threat for the first time in 70 years NATO does not have in the white house a strong purposeful active leader who appears to believe in NATO and as we listen to people in the Alliance and outside here in Europe and in our country that was the primary threat that
people identified how do you how do we regain our leadership role by reminding ourselves in the United States and I would respectfully suggest in Europe that there's not a single challenge that you mentioned that we can meet alone than any one of us can meet alone I mean you think about I mean that in a literal sense not in a nod is not hyperbole and each of these requires coordination reaching out getting some consensus to be able to act as a community not just
as a single nation and you know NATO has always been the platform from which we've been able as United States and individual European countries and Europe United to respond to whatever the crisis worse you know we and you know and there's a way to deal with it's not always easy you know all these crises affect each of our countries slightly differently some more acutely than others but they affect us all and sometimes it's hard to generate a
consensus but I'm looking at John Kerry he generated a consensus in Europe on Iran a significant significant agreement standing up to Russian aggression in Ukraine which I spent the significant part of my career and I see the woman who spent most of the time dealing with me the pork devil she had to spend an awful lot of time with me and dealing with making sure we had a a consensus in Europe which wasn't automatic initially that we deal with
Russian aggression by what we did to impose sanctions and you know building a club the global coalition to defeat Isis it wasn't just you know so you know I I think Nicky it's about not being nostalgic about what we did but understand how and why we did it we did it through really serious serious coordination and disagreement and and sometimes consensus and sometimes it was really tough but we didn't do it in public you know I had a dad who I have
two brothers and a sister my dad's absolute Maxim was you're never allowed to disagree with your brother or sisters in public you can fight like hell at home but never in public well we used to have our disagreements and we did it among ourselves until we hammered out the approach we wanted to use but today because of I think a lack of leadership coming from the other side of the Atlantic we we find ourselves in a different place it is uncomfortable
right let me ask you about Russia because you spent a lot of your time in the Senate and his vice president focused on Russia and you've seen the ups and downs in that relationship right now you poot in hacked into our election yet at our election in 2016 has that act that's a fact the Dutch French and German elections in 2017 they're continuing their cyber operations against us they annexed Crimea they also
they occupy the Donbass they invaded Georgia they're preying on the Baltic countries how do we both contain a refortified NATO contain Russia in Europe but also we're going to have to deal with them on Iran in the future Afghanistan North Korea what's the balance in our relationship with Russia well first of all I think we have to be explicit in our response and make clear to Russia that there's a price to pay for these transgressions of
international norms and and I think we have to we have to be straightforward about it and we had to be prepared to take certain actions for example we have to strengthen the alliance by which we did NATO did - the two meetings ago that by establishing virtually continuous air land and sea presence on NATO's eastern perimeter but it goes beyond that I think we have to make it clear that partners outside of NATO like Georgia and Ukraine we have to help them in
every way we can to help them become more resilient to Russia's malign and influence and you know I want to be explicit that I'm not concerned about Russian influence in Europe alone I'm very concerned about Russian influence in the United States of America it's real it's consequential and unchecked and unchallenged it can cause us great great difficulty especially at a time when there's so much uncertainty on the economy because the world is changing so
rapidly it's so easy to demagogue the change that are taking place by blaming the other by getting ourselves in the situation where we divide ourselves and so you know III think we have to reduce our vulnerabilities as well you know we could be doing a great deal more on cyber we could be doing a great deal more both at home and abroad in dealing with everything from guaranteeing our undersea capability as well as space I mean there's a lot of things that we
should be reacting to the time doesn't permit me to speak to but the bottom line of all this is it seems to me that we have to just acknowledge straight up Russia is a malign actor but that doesn't mean we should not be looking for opportunities to make agreements with Russia where there's a mutual interest and by the way I don't think we should give up on the Russian people I don't think we should give up on the Russian people they have a kleptocracy
that is ruling them at this point and there's trade-offs and bargains being made by that leadership in order to try to keep the population how can I well not let the population have much of what it wants but you know I think that maintaining a qualitative edge over Russia and undersea technology space and whole range of other things so but not walking away from the possibility of what working on strategic arms control so we ought to be able to walk and chew
gum at the same time we we've been able to do that in the past Richard Burton led the effort you know III mean it sincerely in terms of dealing with Russia in terms of strategic doctrine we were able to we had great difficulty then it was a Soviet Union so look but again I don't think we should give up give up on the Russian people I think we have to keep investing in everything from student exchanges to a whole range of issues to let the Russian people know
that that the future lies over here not there we have time for one more question I thought one of the most interesting parts of your speech was when you say we can't go back to the old NATO we've got to build a new NATO and you're right and that's maybe even to unite our East Asian allies and our NATO allies not in a formal military alliance but in political common cause and here's the question because it seems that the Russians and Chinese have a lot
of self-confidence in themselves in the authoritarian model a lot of people critique us the Americans and say you've lost that self confidence that Truman and Eisenhower and Kennedy and Reagan and Barack Obama had how do you respond to that and is edible is that our biggest challenge I think first of all we got to stop treating NATO like a protection racket which is the way we're doing it now NATO is based on US core values democratic principles as shared
values and know a commitment each other.we we used to talk about why this was important and and we have to stop taking NATO for granted you know it's it's this strange I think as I've traveled throughout Europe which I've done a lot over the last 12 to 15 years there almost seems in some of your countries the notion that well you know NATO work so well we don't have anything to be worried about it we we don't have much to be worried about well the truth
that matters we have a hell of a lot to be worried about a hell of a lot to be worried about it's almost like we've taken for granted a system that's provided such security stability that we don't have to do anything more with it to in fact continue that same stability and so in the interest of time what I'd recommend everybody do here is read you and duck loose article and what's in the harvard one of the Harvard publications NATO at 70 an alliance in crisis is
worth the read mr. vice president thank you for your years of service to the Alliance and your faith in us and thanks for being with us today we appreciate a special
you know Brendon there's no expression God made man and then he made firefighters I oh and this is not hyperbole I owe the fire service in my state in the fire service across the nation so so much in a personal basis you know we don't realize what they do until in fact you you need them they fire service in my state they saved the life of both my sons when I lost my wife and daughter
they used the jaws of life and took them hours to get my kids out and get them the hospital and save their lives they they saved my life I was I suffered from a cranial aneurysm it means a bleed in a and one of your arteries going into your brain and in your head and and most people don't make it the old bad joke is how do you know someone aneurysm is on the autopsy table they got me in the middle of a snowstorm all the way down to one of the best neurosurgeons in the
country happened to be at Walter Reed when I couldn't get down there they got me in time down there for thirteen hour operation they saved my life they also did they saved my home no I want to carry these guys dude they saved my home I was doing Meet the Press oh and back a long while ago and and lightning struck my home my wife is in the home and the thick the smoke ended up being coming in through the underneath the air-conditioning system
and then all the all events and floors were collapsing it was so thick you couldn't even see in the windows and they came and they got my wife and and they also saved my home and they risked their lives doing it you know the law enforcement the emergency service people firefighters they're the only people who run into danger voluntarily and they're an incredible breed of cat man I want to tell you there's something else so I want to say
thank you folks it's great to be back with round seeing off a lot of friends you know it's good to be back in this very building last time I stood here was at the end of the last election and you elected your new representative Abbey Fink an hour to the United States Congress thank you thank you thank you I really mean it thank you and they took over the Congress the House of Representatives now democratic kanzen Lord Lord she is doing one heck of a job
for real folks the good news is the bad news you're gonna see a whole heck of a lot of me I promise you this no one's gonna work harder in Iowa than Joe Biden to get your support and gain your confidence and Rob came back and Senator thank you so much and I want to also say hello to the art who that your state representative and and I don't even know Todd to Senator Taylor and Brent Linn County Supervisor you know I used to be a supervisor if we call him councilman
back where I was it's such a hard job I ran for the Senate it was too difficult because they know where you live and they go and what does the supervisor do they know it's a tough tough job but thank you for doing it man and and I want to thank Brett and Bill human Bill and Dustin the business manager ibw local 405 and 204 respectively and I want to make no mistake about it I'm a union guy not just labor its union
Union you guys built the middle-class folks on a serious note you know y'all know in your gut y'all know in your gut that this election for president is different it's different than then any election we've gone through not because I'm running is different and the reason it's different is the very core values of our nation our standing in the world our very democracy everything is made America America is at stake and we know why
limited to four years this administration will go down in history as an aberrant moment in time but give eight years of this administration in the White House we're gonna forever and fundamentally change the character of the country we can repair now God willing we win or what we've gone through and we're going to be able to put the get back together god willing our international partnerships the fact of the matter is that we've not have a
president who ever has embraced so many autocrats and dictators and stiff-armed our friends it's worrisome it's a concern eight years of this presidency you'll find our alliances are fundamentally changed and by the way we need these alliances we are cannot be the policemen of the world alone the folks we're not going to let this happen you know unlike anything in my lifetime I see this election is is different in
that you saw Charlotte's ville I know at the time I wrote an article for saying about Charlotte's ville when you saw these neo-nazis carrying carrying swastikas coming out of the fields with torches with contorted looks on her face accompanied by white supremacists chanting hate and deceit and going on and talking abut you're using the same anti-semitic pile that was used in the 30s in the United in Germany and then the president when the rest of the world
was looking for condemnation and we were when those good decent people came and said who were fighting against hate not in supporting him and there was a clash what did he say when I asked he said there were good people some good people on both sides I tell you what I I don't think we've ever heard very fine was his phrase very fine people on both sides you know in just a few days ago when the president was critical my saying that and I said it back and wrote an article
on Atlantic magazine at the time it occurred he now has come down and doubled down on concocting a phony story about how these violent thugs only wanted to protect the statue of Robert Ely give me a break oh no I mean this is enough enough man this is nonsense the very rally was advertised advertised as the white supremacist rally anti-semitic chants were clear hatred was on the March and he knew it as I said I said at the time
were the battle for the soul of the nation and we are we are in a battle for the soul of the nation that's why above all else we have to defeat President Trump in 2020 because the stakes are so so high for what I call the backbone of America we got to reconstruct the backbone over the backbone of America hard-working middle-class Iowans and Americans the country wasn't built to make it clear to
you and make no mistake about it when you confront of it the country was not built by Wall Street bankers and CEOs and and and hedge fund managers it was built by ordinary Americans doing extraordinary things not a joke that's a historical fact you built America the neighborhoods you and I come from built America because it was built by as I said the great a great American middle class because folks the history of the journey of this country has been we have
done remarkable things when the middle class has been given just an even chance just an even chance but today an awful lot of folks are worried that the American Dream is literally slipping from their grasp well beyond the beyond the promise for their children have our 35 percent American people saying they do not believe that their children will be able to have the same opportunities they had be able to have the same standard of living they had that's the
first time in a long long long history that that's considered but today the reason you know got to ask yourself what had this happen how do we get here and I think the main reason we got here is because we've there used to be a basic bargain in America but today that bargain that drove the most successful economic engine in the history of the world that bargain is pretty simple if you contribute to the welfare of the outfit you work with you got to share in
the benefits if an enterprise hit hard times everyone took a hit from a CEO to the secretary but folks the only people today who benefit the only people who benefit now today because that bargain is broken are the CEOs and when the company does well the CEOs and the shareholders are the only beneficiaries not their employees the only people get hurt when a company goes through tough times are their employees you things have changed I have a hawk
cartoon hanging to my office that came out of the New Yorker and I had it hanging him off as when I was vice president I'm kept it in my office as a professor at the University of Pennsylvania and it sits there and it's a picture of a big road ton guy sitting at a table looks like he's being interrogated and on the table there was a burlap bag with a dollar sign on it and he's looking at his interrogator and he's saying I'm sorry how was I supposed
to know he was a job creator come on man job Craner they used to be today my Republican friends and corporate America has adopted the notion that the only responsibility corporations have are to their shareholders that's so much malarkey it's just not true the fact of the matter is they have obligations they've had in the past obligations to their workers to the employees of the community they live in to the environment the folks
what you know my dad who didn't know what ran an automobile agency telling me he didn't create thousands of jobs by those cars being sold and folks on the line didn't change them you're telling me that the people who grow our food process the food package our food sell our food deliver our food they're not job creators look folks this is getting yes just backwards backwards I think it's incredibly important that restored the dignity of work you know my dad used
to have an expression for real he'd say Joey and jobs about a lot more than a paycheck it's about your dignity it's about respect it's about your place in the community it's about being able to look your kid in the eye and say honey it's gonna be okay but think of all the people today who don't think they can say that to their kids but today and I went around the country things have changed I think
the moral obligation of our time is to rebuild the middle class that's my North Star and the reason for that is when the middle class does well everybody does well the wealthy do fine the metaclass that's fine and people have a way up there's hope there's optimism folks and we build the middle class when you build the middle class this time it's gonna make sure I'm gonna make sure everybody comes along everybody regardless of their race their
gender their ethnicity their religion where they live whether they have a disability everybody gets in this time everybody but for me that will be what I consider the measure of economic success as a nation not just the growth of the GDP at its core at its core it gets down to a fundamental issue the dignity of work you know being able to provide and what do I mean by that they need work is being able to provide provide for the
security for your family in yourself being able to do something that you can leave behind being able to be in a position that you're able to do something that in fact generates some hope for your kids and your families that's a dignities about look you know how can you maintain a person's dignity if they can't how how can they maintain their dignity if they can't if they're not able to take care of their sick child because they can't afford to cover
a pre-existing condition how can how can that happen how can that happen how can we a man or a woman a husband a wife anyone who watches a family member maintain their dignity if an insurance company come along and say you've now in your imperative care you've now reached the end of your insurance no longer you know how can a parent do that how can that be the case excuse me for us we used to say in the Senate a point of personal privilege lot of you knew my
son Beau my son Beau was diagnosed with a terminal disease he knew we knew the chances were close to zero I couldn't imagine if we he didn't have insurance if he hadn't been a military man and had the coverage he had I can't imagine what it would have been like if they said about six months into his year or fighting for his life said no no you're outrun your insurance we can't do any more talk about dignity being stripped from you or education I can't
imagine a parent has to maintain her and their dignity it's not just about if you can't afford like you can't today to get your kid to school after high after high school but think what it does to the parent when you look at you there's nothing worse as you all know over parents there's nothing worse than being able a child no they have an opportunity or a problem and not being able to respond to it my lord my lord I remember when I was
in high school I had an opportunity to go to a expensive school and my dad wanted wouldn't let me take the grant made and he didn't want me waiting on tables he said my son is not going to do that so I remember going down my senior year afford to change cars with my dad to be able to drive a nice car to the senior prom after a game and I remember running in parking my old car and running asking Mary worth dad says he's out in the lane out there I walked out
my dad was pacing back and forth athletes true story my dad was pacing back and forth now I looked at me said Oh Joey I'm so sorry honey I'm so sorry I thought before cell phone thought maybe something happened to my siblings and my mom or something terrible I said what's the matter dad said I went to the bank today honey to get a loan to help me to get to school but he said they wouldn't give me the loan on it I'm so ashamed
I'm so ashamed he had no reason to be ashamed I got to school and got a good education but folks think of all the people you know maybe some of you think of all the people you know I've been in that situation it's about dignity the dignity of work being able to be in a position where we have affordable education affordable health care look you know the fact of the matter is that the philosopher that's a strange thing to be quoting Conte at a political event
but Kahn had had an express he defined the dignity this way he said people should never be treated as a means to an end but an end in themselves folks but today's corporate culture in this administration they don't care about your dignity they're squeezing the life out of workers they're making a decision that they could harder and harder for us to meet our basic people to meet their basic needs stripping under their personal dignity
you know but there's been a war not only on by by waging the war against collective bargaining which has helped build a little class and secure the rights of people who aren't members of labour we have a 40-hour a week we have overtime all these things because of Labor even if you're not a member of labor but here's the point what's sort of crept into the system without us really paying much attention to it for the last 20 years
non-compete agreements you know the ability to bargain for yourself not as a not as an a part of an organization a non-compete agreement you're making sandwiches for it used to be making summaries from Jimmy John's you have to sign a non-compete agreement and they changed it and so you couldn't walk across town and maybe get a dollar an hour more working for another McDonald's or Garvey's or whatever it was what's that all about it's all about one thing
suppressing wages suppressing wages not a joke and the other thing is you know what look what's happened companies aren't allowed to deny overtime to people who are hourly workers so what do they do they reclassified as people as managers if you're if you're working in a supermarket and you're stacking the shelves but you control somebody who has the carts to drive out too big all the all those cans of tomato soup you're stacking a lot of patients say you're
now manager why doing that that deprived that deprived a significant number of hourly workers and I gonna get the number for you over 4 million hourly workers 1 billion two hundred million dollars in lost wages just last year what's that about where did that go that 1 billion two hundred million no no no really he went back to buying back their stock buying back to stock of a corporation in order to raise because 90% of all CEOs they get their
compensation that way 90 percent of their compensation I said guess it goes that way what is it what are we doing what's happened to us folks speaking over time I think is long long long time that there's a minimum wage of $15 an hour no I really mean it I mean look folks it's uh you know we listen let's talk about which you have a right to know what I'll do as president my plan my goal is the reward work not just wealth the first step is we have to deal
with that god-awful tax cut the president to put you on by the way y'all did really well on that right y'all really saw things go look folks look folks the you know we had they we have to eliminate some of the one trillion six hundred billion dollars in loopholes that are in the law right now you can't possibly justify them you can't justify them all as I said when a very conservative Republican was president named Reagan there were eight
hundred billion in loop now it's one trillion six hundred billion what's happening to us look the super wealthy have gotten significant health as a consequence of those loopholes and greater incentives for companies the ship job over some jobs overseas in those loopholes folks look you know as a consequence of his tax cut and I said it when it was being passed when they were they were moving it he's going to use it as an excuse by creating a def these
guys are deficit hawks right they increase the deficit by one trillion nine hundred billion dollars of Mexico now what are they using for their now coming along and saying you know we got to deal with that deficit in the Republican Congress the Senate and the Republic's in the house you know we have to do we have to we have to deal with taking on those those so that social safety net that's costing us too much not a joke here's what they're saying if
Trump wins in 2020 I guarantee you I guarantee you that Medicare and Medicaid is social security ground the chopping block there's been no question about that in terms of what the majority leader the United States senators said we can't let that happen you earned those rights you earned them the folks we need to get rid of this capital gains loophole for the super wealthy look why do we reward investment
over work why do you pay for example warren buffett got it right he pays a lower tax rate than his secretary how can that possibly be in this country how can we the place where since that tax cut got gone in effect twice as many American corporations that are multibillion-dollar covers pay zero in taxes how can that be how can that be justified it's wrong it's not only economic it's morally wrong with you go
look the second thing that I will do my plan that I will do is make sure we finish the job on healthcare folks folks I don't have time to give you a lay out all the details all the plan that's going to come out as I can't paint across here for you but does that mean because it will keep you here forever but folks we've got to finish the job when we passed the Affordable Health Care I told President Obama it
was a big deal or words that effect but fact of the matter was it was a big deal and you know folks let me say something else the fact of the matter is that Barack Obama is an extraordinary man you measure a man or a woman's worth and their courage based upon how they react to overwhelming crises I watched this guy everything but locusts landed on his desk not a joke he had an incredible and his integrity his dignity his decency you know he was the president our kids
could look up to parents wanted them didn't hear what he had to say well I I believe he was a great president there wasn't a day there wasn't a single solitary day that I serve with him that I thought I didn't that I wasn't proud to be with him you know and the Affordable Care Act was one of those most important days we made historic progress we extended coverage of 22 million Americans who didn't have it the folks now we have to finish we
have to finish that job so that we no longer have an argue about whether or not health care is a privilege or a right it should be a right for every American look because most of all it gives people and people moms and dads the families a peace of mind remember my mom saying dad goes to bed after he lost a particular job where he lost his health care he said he staring at the ceiling going to bed what happens what happens if I
get sick what happens we lose everything what happens to my family folks look we have to finish this job and the way we're gonna do that is we have to not only keep them from continuing to eviscerate the Affordable Care Act but we got to make sure that whether you're covered by your employer on your own or not at all you should have a choice to buy into a public option out there fine like Medicare it should be a right people have the third
thing I'm going to focus on is we need much more education and we need to deal with quite frankly the end of the Trump devos education agenda and I don't think there's any state in America understands that better than Iowa I remember with kids you know everybody took the Iowa test you were the proudest no I'm sure you were proud incredibly proud but look like Republican governors here as well as
your Republican legislature has done to that Republic across the board ladies and gentlemen look the fact of the matter is in the 21st century 12 years of education is not enough to stay in the middle class it's simply not enough the fact of the matter is studies show that 65 and over 100 people need an education beyond high school to get a job today today that's only going to go up but think about how unaffordable education is for so many many people the
fact of the matter is we have to make it more affordable way to make sure the economy works not only for people of a college degree but also make it work for people who have on-the-job training trade programs Community College we can afford all this you know we can afford all this up punishing anybody we just we can put every single solitary person in Community College for free it costs 6 billion dollars a year cut the cost of four-year college in half and you and I
said well there goes biding that big spender again but guess what eliminating one of the six hundred or the one loophole of the one trillion six hundred plus billion dollars just is called stepped-up basis stepped-up basis means if you have a capital gain on the way to cash it in God for you get hit by a truck your kids get the gain they don't pay a single tax it's not inheritance tax in the tax own ten seconds earlier it's 17 billion dollars
out of one trillion six hundred billion and plus we could put every single qualified student in Community College for free we'd increase our product we give chance the folks the point I want to make here and I'll make this a lot as we go forward about how we pay for the program so we don't have to punish anybody but to punish anybody and it will actually help everybody we did this survey for the fortune 500 companies when I was
president along with the secretary of of Labor and along with the Secretary of Commerce we ask them what do they need most they said we need a more educated workforce come on man more educated workforce we know how to do that and give people an opportunity to get the education they need and I'm talking about post high school I'm talking about trade school I'm talking about short term programs I'm talking about being able of people to work with their hands
able to do the things they want look as I said I'm gonna go in a lot more detail later but let me just say this we need to invest and restore the middle class and we have to have an ambitious plan it's about the future the future folks we need to rebuild America with clean renewable energy cleaner safety fair faster transportation to confront the existential threat that climate change poses for all of us and guys this is not a deal where you have to punish anybody
for this this is not a deal guess what if we invest that the money we need and I understand I heard no way out that there's been an agreement on a on an infrastructure bill among the least in principle between the president and the Democratic leadership in the Congress we'll see but guess what guess what it creates millions and millions of jobs good decent paying jobs folks look as I said we can do all that we need to
do to make this country grow to restore dignity to work and all the things we have to do if we will just eliminate unnecessary loopholes we have to raise any of your taxes eliminate unnecessary loopholes and the only they stands in the way is our broken political system it's broken the country can't afford for me for four more years of a president who wakes up every day to wage a war on Twitter tweet on Twitter I think of it the first way I almost slipped but guys
while the rest of the world and competing with us is waging a war for the future ladies and gentlemen we can't afford four more years of this kenta four more years of a president who abuses the power of the presidency and most of all most of all we can't afford four more years of a president whose entire agenda has been to divide the country to split us to make us be we have to talk about unity we have to bring people back together again
and folks we give all Americans the opportunity to provide for themselves and their families being part of the middle class and one more thing I know I'm called middle class Joey talking about a lot of snot men as a compliments man I'm not sophisticated but I tell you what I'm pretty darn sophisticated Oh know how we have kept unlike any of the nation in tough times our political or economic
and our social stability it's because people genuinely believed generally believed that the American Dream was alive that they had access to possibilities I was a Xi Jingping who I've spent when we were when I was president hours and hours and we're in a place called the head of China we were in the president now we're in a place called Chengdu a city on the Tibetan Peninsula having dinner with one another and we Chetta we each had an interpreter
with us and he looked at me he said can you define America for me and I said yes I can and I meant it in one word one word possibilities possibility folks I'm more optimistic about the possibilities of America if we just get up raise our heads up remember who we are this is the United States of America folks with most productive workers in the world we're in a situation where America's nearly energy independent we used Moab more great research universities in America
than all the rest of the world combined as my wife the professor would say google it if you doubt me look look the fact of the matter is America the only thing can tear America part is no foreign Emma it's America itself and folks we've got to stop it everybody knows who Donald Trump is I want to make sure they know who we are Who I am we choose hope over fear we choose unity over division we Tru truth over lies and we choose science over fiction this is
the United States of America we can't do anything god bless you and may God protect our troops and I made it thank you