According to the IPCC, limiting global warming to 1.5°C will require achieving net zero emissions by 2050. We are already seeing the early effects of climate change, and that level of rapid emissions reductions is necessary to avoid the catastrophic consequences that would result from any further delay. The difference between the warming we have already experienced and the 2°C warming we could see if we don’t act now to reduce emissions is a greater risk of water scarcity, increased sea-level rise, greater damage to ecosystems and animal habitats, declines in human health, and the displacement of millions of people. In addition to the environmental effects, the Department of Defense has characterized climate change as a threat multiplier. Delaney’s plan will put us on the right track to reduce emissions in time to avoid the worst consequences of global warming. However, we need the international community to come together to combat global warming which is why Delaney would also rejoin the Paris Climate Agreement on Day 1 of his presidency.
Carbon Fee and Dividend
The largest component of Delaney’s climate plan that will have the biggest impact is his Carbon Fee and Dividend proposal. It is time we put a price on carbon to end polluters’ free ride. While in Congress, Delaney introduced the first bipartisan Carbon Fee and Dividend bill in over 10 years. The proposal starts the fee at $15 per metric ton of CO2 equivalent and increases the cost by $10 each year. Implementing a carbon fee, where the revenue is returned to the American people, is the best method for providing the market incentives to reduce our emissions. Delaney’s Carbon Fee will reduce carbon emissions by 90% by 2050. Taxpayers would also be given options with what to do with the dividend, including investing in a tax-advantaged savings account like a 529 for future education purposes or a retirement account. The Carbon Fee and Dividend proposal has bipartisan support from various industries in the private sector as well as the environmental community. However, we need more innovative solutions that will get us to net-zero emissions by 2050.
Direct Air Capture/Negative Emissions Technology (NET)
Reducing new carbon emissions and replacing fossil fuels with renewable energy will not be enough to limit global warming. According to the IPCC, to achieve net zero emissions and prevent warming in excess of 1.5°C we will need Negative Emissions Technology, including direct air capture, to remove a minimum of 100 Gt of CO2 from the atmosphere. This technology is currently too expensive to be implemented at the necessary scale, which is why Delaney proposes ending the federal government’s fossil fuel subsidies and making an annual $5 billion investment in NET.
I will promote NET, thus bringing down the cost, through a reverse auction program that gives first access to government subsidies to the companies that can capture and store atmospheric carbon for the lowest cost.
By promoting innovation in NET and implementing the carbon fee, Delaney will create a powerful financial incentive to capture carbon instead of releasing it into the atmosphere. As emitting carbon becomes more expensive due to the increasing carbon fee, it will be more economical to capture the carbon and avoid paying the fee.
Increasing Renewable Energy Research Budget 5-Fold
We will solve climate change the American way, innovating our way out of the problem. This will require continued robust government support. Delaney proposes a 5-fold increase in DOE green energy programs, including the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy, and the Office of Nuclear Energy. This investment will support research to improve energy storage, battery performance, sustainable transportation technology, grid efficiency, renewable energy, energy efficiency, carbon capture, advanced nuclear, and energy conservation technology.
To continue private sector investment in the renewable energy economy, Delaney will bolster renewable energy tax credits.
Challenge Grants
To spur climate change innovation in the private and non-profit sectors, Delaney will create a new challenge grant program for significant innovations in:
Preventing and stopping wildfires
Reducing emissions from agriculture
Reducing emissions from manufacturing
Electrification of freight
Energy storage and transmission
Climate Corps
Delaney proposed the creation of the Climate Corps as part of his National Service Program. The new program would provide opportunities for recent high school graduates to work in low-income urban and rural communities where the Corps members would support these communities’ transition to a green economy, work on environmentally friendly projects, and fight climate change by working on the ground. Under-resourced communities for too long have suffered the most from pollution and climate change, all too often lacking clean water to drink and clean air to breathe. We must provide the manpower and resources to support these communities and recognize that all Americans have a right to a clean, safe, and healthy environment.
In partnership with the government, community-based organizations, and local businesses, Climate Corps members can help communities:
Identify the most pressing local needs that are hindering the community from transitioning to more environmentally friendly practices
Provide information and support to families about sustainability, energy efficiency, and renewable energy
Assist in clean energy projects including solar installation, improving building efficiency, developing community gardens, and increasing awareness about sustainable practices
Carbon Throughway
Climate change skeptics often invoke the false choice of having to choose between jobs or the environment; we can create jobs AND fight climate change at the same time. That’s where the Carbon Throughway comes in.
The Carbon Throughway is a $20 billion infrastructure project that we will construct to safely transport captured CO2 to sites for permanent sequestration and reuse. Building the Carbon Throughway will create tens of thousands of jobs and spur new R&D and innovation in carbon capture. The project would be built with federal labor protections using American steel under a project labor agreement and pay workers prevailing wages. To the extent possible, the Throughway will be built along right of ways of existing pipelines and always abide by the strictest environmental standards. As the carbon fee raises the price of releasing emissions and new innovations in NET make carbon capture cost-effective, the Carbon Throughway will provide an additional financial incentive to capture carbon by facilitating its transfer for commercial uses and permanent sequestration.
It is critical that United States foreign policy be based on a solid foundation of moral principles; that foundation is what has always distinguished the U.S. on the world stage. Within that context, we must place a high priority on defending human rights of all people globally and when confronted with human rights abuses by countries with whom we have relations, we must make the resolution of those abuses an important part of our engagement with that country. There should be no exception to this bedrock foundational policy, not in China, not anywhere and the well documented abuses by the Chinese government that are occurring with respect to the Uighurs demand a U.S. and global response. My administration would work closely with appropriate United Nations agencies – and the U.S. Congress - to investigate human rights abuses which have been committed against the Uighur people. I would place this issue front and center in diplomatic discussions with the Chinese government and would urge them to accord human rights protections to all peoples under their domain. With regard to Hong Kong, while I respect the Chinese government's right to govern within its borders, I will voice strong support for Hong Kong's right to autonomy awarded to the city by its status as a special administration region. Hong Kong's ability to manage its own affairs is important to U.S. policy since thousands of U.S. businesses operate out of Hong Kong because of the economic and political protections.
Yes, I would rejoin, but I would insist on a longer duration. The JCPOA was the best arrangement that six of the leading nations in the world, plus the European Union, could reach to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons. At the time the Trump Administration withdrew from the JCPOA, Iran was in compliance with the terms. U.S. withdrawal has become a provocation for the Iranians to not feel constrained to abide by the JCPOA, which has made the situation with Iran inherently more dangerous. The most significant weakness of the JCPOA was the tenor- it was not long enough in duration to provide hope for a successor Iranian regime to confirm long-term compliance. I would seek a longer term - 20 years - as a condition for rejoining the JCPOA. In addition, I would make clear to the Iranians that, while the JCPOA does not address Iranian ICBM developments or Iranian complicity in terrorist activities, the United States will independently of the nuclear deal take strong measures to respond to any such conduct. Iran is a bad actor, and the JCPOA with a longer duration is an important part of eliminating the threat that Iran can possess a nuclear weapon, a situation that must not be accepted.
 It is impossible to predict what agreements could be in the best interests of our national security, and that of our allies, short of a full denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. As president, I will always consider options that best serve our national security interest. Negotiations with North Korea seeking to achieve nuclear disarmament have been one of the most challenging issues facing successive U.S. administrations for decades. Progress will be incremental, and we need to be patient yet firm in our approach to this relationship. Direct negotiations with North Korea are essential to achieving agreement on the important issues surrounding nuclear disarmament and normalizing relations. While we must be clear that our ultimate objective will be full denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, we should be willing to accept a meaningful and verifiable agreement that takes steps towards denuclearization. We must make clear the path towards our ultimate goal and be steadfast in demanding verified progress before we roll back sanctions. I fear the Trump Administration may agree to removing sanctions against empty measures on the part of North Korea.
The United States should take a leading role in demanding Russia’s return to its established borders. I would provide leadership within NATO to deliver a unified message to Moscow that such aggression will not be tolerated. I would engage with elected Ukrainian leaders to support their efforts to push Russia back, including military aide, training and support as appropriate. Russian aggression against Ukraine has become a lost issue since the beginning of the Trump Administration. President Putin has led Russia with an antagonistic and predatory foreign policy, including the invasion into the Ukraine and annexation of Crimea, which are unacceptable. I would not walk away from this challenge as the Trump Administration has done. I would also pursue targeted sanctions against Russian interests to drive this point home.
When Congress passed the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) in September 2001 after the terrorist attacks on September 11th, the mission was clear in its purpose, to hold accountable those who attacked the United States, and those who harbored the terrorists. Eighteen years later, we are still in Afghanistan, but the mission has since been muddled. Congress needs to pass a new AUMF to update and clarify the mission of U.S. forces. While I support dramatically reducing the number of U.S. troops in Afghanistan, I presently do not believe that a full withdrawal is in our best interests and therefore I envision keeping a small contingency of U.S. forces with a specific focus to train and support local security forces.
The assassination of Jamal Khashoggi was an atrocious act and should cause a reset in our overall relationship with Saudi Arabia. I would demand a clearer accounting than what we have received to date from the Saudi government. While I would not completely cut ties and would continue to do essential business with the country, I would not receive any Saudi official in the White House, and I would not extend high-level U.S. official visits to Saudi Arabia. I would impress upon Saudi officials the importance of respecting human rights at home and abroad. Additionally, I support ending U.S. military support to Saudi Arabia for the purpose of carrying out their military operations in Yemen. My approach to foreign policy will include protection of journalists, wherever they may serve.
I do support a two-state solution but do not think it should be the position of the U.S. to predetermine what that agreement looks like. The only way that lasting peace can be achieved in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is if there are direct, bilateral negotiations between the two parties. The U.S. president can and should be a facilitator and mediator in helping parties come to an agreement, which we have seen done successfully in the past. To help achieve a successful agreement between the Israelis and Palestinians, the U.S. can work with regional partners including Egypt and Jordan to provide stability in the conflict. This includes providing Israel – one of our most important and enduring allies - with the necessary resources to defend themselves while also providing humanitarian aid to the Palestinian population to promote human development and humanitarian services such as education and medical services in ways that reach the people directly.
It is up to the people of Venezuela to decide who will lead their government. I support the elevation of Juan Guaidó to president following the Venezuelan constitution and will continue to speak out in favor of his leadership. I would not, however, favor any direct intervention in Venezuelan power struggles by the United States, but do support our approach to sanctions. I would provide substantial humanitarian support via USAID and through our participation in multilateral agencies such as the OAS and InterAmerican Development Bank.
Africa’s expected population boom will bring new challenges and opportunities to the continent. With half of the population in sub-Saharan Africa expected to be under 21 years old by 2035, there will be a need to create educational and job opportunities for the young population. If jobs are not created, a rise in unemployment could lead to social and political instability and increase the chance of unrest.
The United States can become a key partner in supporting economic growth in Africa by expanding trade agreements (such as the African Growth and Opportunity Act) and increasing U.S. foreign direct investment to promote manufacturing, infrastructure, and innovation of local industry. U.S. economic investment is critical as China is heavily investing in the continent through its Belt and Road Initiative, often through predatory behavior. The U.S. can adjust policies to (1) offer the U.S. as an alternative option (as opposed to China) for countries looking for foreign investment to create jobs, (2) support democratic initiatives and good governance policies, including election monitoring in support of free and fair elections, improving revenue collection, effective policymaking and implementation, and (3) be a helpful partner in providing resources to support economic growth that is less dependent on fossil fuels. With the stakes as high as they currently are for our climate, we must anticipate the growing population’s effect on the environment. A larger population and rapidly developing economy are both common causes for negative environmental outcomes.
I would seek to reenter the TPP on day one of my administration. In response to the emergence of China as a dominant economic power on the international stage – which does not always adhere to accepted trade and economic norms and rules – 12 leading Pacific Rim countries reached agreement on a set of protocols for a rules-based trade deal covering 40% of the global economy to counter Chinese economic misconduct. I was one of a handful of Democrats who voted in favor of Trade Promotion Authority to give President Obama the ability to effectively negotiate TPP because I felt we needed a strong strategic response to China. I believed that the United States alone could not stand against China, that it would take a multilateral and strategic effort to counter China. The Trump Administration has abandoned this approach in favor of a trade war with China, a trade war that has had a serious negative impact on hard working Americans and several sectors of the United States economy.
As populations grow in the developing world, it is easiest to turn to cheap, dirty energy sources to meet increasing energy needs. Developing countries often don’t have the luxury of choosing more expensive, but cleaner, energy sources and greener infrastructure. This is where U.S. global leadership is so incredibly important. There are several policies that the U.S. can lead on to support global renewable energy efforts and many of them center on a key U.S. advantage – innovation which is why I have called for a five-fold increase in Department of Energy basic research to unleash the potential in our scientific community. We must continue to invest in renewable energy sources that can be built and operated for cheaper costs to make these energy sources more economically viable around the world. Additionally, we must invest in direct air capture and negative emissions technologies which suck carbon out of the atmosphere like a vacuum. The UNIPCC report stated that if we want to meet the global emissions reductions goals, we must invest in technology to remove carbon from the atmosphere. The U.S. can become a leader in advancing and exporting this technology for it to be used more widely and at a cheaper cost. The U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Climate Agreement, which was the first global effort where almost all countries around the world committed to addressing climate change, was a mistake. As president, I would rejoin the Paris Agreement on day one.
Our steady and substantial support for and adherence to multilateralism has been our greatest foreign policy accomplishment since World War II. The United Nations and all its agencies, NATO, the IMF, the World Bank, The Asia Development Bank, the InterAmerican Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other multilateral initiatives have all collectively and individually made enormous and crucial contributions to world peace, economic development and poverty alleviation since World War II. The continued financial and political support of the U.S., in particular the U.S. commitment to the economic model of free enterprise and international engagement, was the most important cornerstone of these multinational efforts.
The Iraq War was the most disastrous foreign policy action of the United States since World War II. The most sacred responsibility of the President of the United States, hopefully in concert with the Congress, is to send our young men and women into combat. That decision should only be made in defense of the citizens of the United States or in defense of our allies or in rare circumstances in favor of crucial humanitarian objectives. In the case of our invasion of Iraq in 2003 there was no clear case made that the United States was threatened in any way by the Republic of Iraq. No unequivocal evidence was presented to support such a threat and the Bush Administration relied on faulty and highly-suspicious reporting regarding weapons of mass destruction. They had no clear plan on what to do following the invasion and the resulting chaos in Iraq led to the loss of hundreds of thousands of U.S. and Iraqi citizens as well as the destabilization of Iraq and the region. U.S. credibility around the world was undermined by our decisions in Iraq. Looking forward, we must be judicious in when we deploy troops to avoid a similar a catastrophic action.
The American people are far greater than the sum of our political parties. It is time for us to rise above our broken politics and renew the spirit that enabled us to achieve the seemingly impossible. This is why I am running for the Democratic nomination for president of the United States.
Our government is hamstrung by excessive partisanship. We are letting critical opportunities to improve the country pass us by. And we are not even talking about the most important thing: the future. The victims of this leadership failure are the good people we are sworn to serve, and we are leaving our country ill-prepared for dramatic changes ahead. The current administration is making us less prosperous and less secure. I’m running because I have an original approach to governing and an economic policy that can put us on a different course.
My vision for the country is based on my own American Dream. I was raised in a blue-collar family; my dad was a union electrician, and my parents didn’t attend college. Because of a great education and a helping hand from others, I was fortunate enough to become a successful entrepreneur. Before age 40, I founded and led as chief executive two publicly traded companies that created thousands of jobs and were admired in the community. I’ve been blessed with a great family and the opportunity to give back through philanthropy and public service. As a progressive businessman, I’ve made it a priority to be solutions-oriented and have been consistently recognized as one of the most innovative and bipartisan members of Congress. I’ve done this by simultaneously celebrating the power of our free-market economy while insisting that there is a role for government to set goals and rules of the road and take care of those who are left behind.
My focus is on preparing our country for the future. Technological innovation, automation and globalization are the most powerful forces in the world today. These forces have been enormously positive; they will continue to make life better, enhance productivity, solve some of the world’s most difficult problems and open societies. Sadly, these forces will also eliminate certain jobs and require workers to learn new skills more quickly. They will create security risks and strain our resources. We need to respond to these large-scale opportunities and challenges by thinking about policy from a fresh perspective. What are the resources we have, how do we compete and create jobs, how can we ensure that everyone has a fair chance, and how do we protect ourselves?
To do this, we need new infrastructure, which can be paid for using my bipartisan approach to infrastructure and international tax reform. We need to be smarter, fueled by more investment in science, education and research. We need new ideas on the future of jobs and work, one where we build a stronger and more vibrant middle class. We need to encourage a more just and inclusive form of capitalism and reduce barriers to small-business formation, start-ups, job creation, investment and growth. We need to strengthen our safety-net programs and create a new social contract. We need to reform the systems of education, health care and immigration, and encourage more volunteerism, impact investing and public service. And we need to take affirmative steps to reduce our security, fiscal and climate risks. This is what my campaign will be about.
I am optimistic about our future. A future where responsible businesses work with our government to lead the world not only in growth and innovation but also in positive societal change.
The Democratic Party cherishes opportunity over birthright; wants people to earn a good living; offers a helping hand to the poor, the immigrant and those left behind; wants all Americans to have health care; embraces diversity, equality and justice; understands the importance of global engagements; believes that government can do transformative things; and stands ready to provide for our common defense. This is why I’m a Democrat. But we have a lot of work to do, given our recent electoral failures, and we need a different approach — one that’s focused on the facts and the future.
To do this work with the commitment it deserves, I will not be running for reelection to the House of Representatives. No games, no cat-and-mouse, no backup plan at the 11th hour if a focus group goes badly.
My approach goes beyond party and partisanship; I am first and foremost an American. I believe in a common national identity. I love our ambition, our values, what we represent to the world and our ability to use our greatness for a good and noble purpose. It is my love of country that compels me to behave differently in politics — to work to do big things, seek solutions and compromise, respect the privilege of public service and be optimistic about the world.
French President Emmanuel Macron’s recent visit to Washington highlighted how differently our two nations are thinking about the future. In March, the French government unveiled a national strategy for artificial intelligence technology that has a clear goal: make France a global leader in AI. In the last year, China and the European Union have taken similar steps. If we’re serious about having a prosperous economy for decades to come, the United States should do the same.
France’s national strategy also reveals that Macron’s government is wrestling with how to ensure that AI supports inclusivity and diversity, and to make certain that its implementation is transparent. The French aren’t just theorizing; they’re taking action. France plans to invest 1.5 billion euros (almost $1.8 billion dollars) in the next five years in artificial intelligence research. The French are looking to create their own AI ecosystem, train the next generation of scientists and engineers, and make sure that their workforce is prepared for an automated future.
France isn’t alone. Last month, the European Union’s executive branch recommended its member states increase their public and private sector investment in AI. It also pledged billions in direct research spending. Meanwhile, China laid out its AI plan for global dominance last year, a plan that has also been backed up with massive investment. China’s goal is to lead the world in AI technology by 2030. Around the world, our global economic competitors are taking action on artificial intelligence.
It’s therefore striking that the United States doesn’t have a national artificial intelligence plan. Despite the recent private meeting with tech executives at the White House, the administration has taken little action in this area.
That’s why last year I joined with a bipartisan group of lawmakers in the House and Senate in introducing the Future of AI Act, the first bill of its kind to be introduced in Congress. The bill looks at some of the same key questions that the French have examined, because when you zoom out it is clear that these concerns are universal: How can we make sure that workers and society will benefit? How can we encourage and support economy-boosting and job-creating research? And how can we ensure that AI will be implemented ethically and without bias, while also protecting user privacy?
“The Price of Greatness is Responsibility”
Churchill’s words ring as true today as they did over 70 years ago. As a great nation, we must be a responsible nation. As leaders, we have a responsibility to tell the truth. To lead. To find common ground. To tackle problems and to engage in the world. If political leaders instead shirk these responsibilities – and engage in irresponsible behavior – our country suffers as does the world. This is what I am here to talk about today: responsible U.S. leadership.
Dean Nasr, Members of the Johns Hopkins Community,
Thank you for having me.
I am honored by the invitation to address this remarkable institution, as SAIS celebrates the 75th anniversary of its founding. Seventy-five years ago, the world was still embroiled in World War II. Here, at home, food rationing was being introduced. Race riots convulsed cities around the country. Despite turmoil both at home and abroad, Christian Herter and Paul Nitze had the foresight to establish SAIS. Their aim at the time was to ensure young Americans were prepared for a post-war world in which the United States would inevitably play a significant role.
The early years of this great school coincided with the shaping of the post-war so-called ‘liberal international order.’ Today, that order is under stress. Resurgent nationalism and populism are questioning the core principles of this framework. Revisionist powers are working to undermine the authority of its rules.
Herter and Nitze were men of great vision in world affairs – they served presidents of both parties, and were among a select group of wise leaders who conceived and enacted many of our nation’s major national security decisions in the second half of the 20th century. I can think of no better audience than the SAIS community with whom to engage in a conversation about the international challenges the United States faces in the 21st century and the foreign affairs vision I have for our country.
Let me start by introducing myself. I am the beneficiary of an America that worked – an immigration system that worked, a social compact that worked, and a miraculous American innovation machine that worked. All of which were created by responsible American leadership.
I am the grandson of immigrants. Two of my grandparents were born abroad, in England and Ireland. One of them, my grandfather Al Rowe, immigrated to the United States in 1923. He landed at Ellis Island as a teenager, with his seven brothers and sisters. While each of his brothers and sisters were allowed into the country, he was detained because he had a disability. He only had one arm. He appealed his deportation, and as fate would have it, his case was heard by a judge who also only had one arm. You can guess how his appeal went.
My family settled in the New York area and ended up in North Jersey. My grandfather worked in a pencil factory. We grew up a blue-collar family in a blue-collar neighborhood. My dad was a union electrician. Our family had health care because of his union and a scholarship from the IBEW helped me go to college. Something my parents never had the opportunity to do.
After college, I went to law school and then got into business, starting two companies from scratch. We were able to take those companies public – I was the youngest CEO of a NYSE company – and we were able to hire and employ a lot of people and achieve great success.
I’ve been blessed to have lived the American Dream. But I worry that stories like mine are out of reach for the next generation. In fact, today’s young people could be the first generation of Americans that won’t do better than their parents. And that is a failure of leadership. In many ways, the failure to reform our own economic system has led to our current misguided approach to foreign policy.
The 2020 presidential election takes place against the backdrop of significant changes in the world and at home. The global balance of power is shifting before our eyes, with Asia now rivaling the West as the world’s center of gravity.  New powers are emerging, some posing unique challenges to the United States and the liberal international order. The extraordinary power of technological innovation has transformed everything in our world – economies, jobs, national security and human interaction.
These forces have connected people in ways we could never have imagined. They have worked together to create the greatest poverty elimination machine the world has ever seen. Anyone who thinks the condition of humankind has not fundamentally improved across the last 75 years is simply not looking at the facts. In 1950, only 25% of the world was interconnected globally and the global poverty rate was 66%. Today, these forces have led to 75% of the world becoming interconnected and the global poverty rate has fallen to 10%.
The facts clearly favor the optimist.
But this progress has come with challenges, including disrupting our economy and economies in the developed west. The last several decades have seen extraordinary concentration of opportunity, wealth and income making America, in many ways, a country of birthright and not opportunity. As an example of how profound the opportunity concentration is, last year, 80% of the venture capital was invested in 50 counties in our country – out of nearly 3,100. That story does not end well.
In the context of these economic trends, is it a surprise that many Americans are questioning everything we have done across the last several decades? Make no mistake about it my friends, these economic realities are central to our foreign policy challenges. They were brought by irresponsible politicians who failed to do the things we should have done – in education, healthcare, tax, fiscal and technology policy – to prepare our country for rapid and profound change. And as I used to say in business, the cost of doing nothing is not nothing.
These changes have collectively left us in many ways more vulnerable than ever before. Information, including the know-how to create and deliver weapons, is more easily shared. Disinformation campaigns, fueled by the ability of self-interested actors to masquerade as journalists and manipulate people’s opinions with falsehoods – and soon, completely realistic deep fakes, are powerful and effective. With advances in the area of cyberwarfare, all nations, even those unable to acquire arsenals of nuclear weapons, have the potential to change the fate of a nation and our world. And while free-market capitalism and the explosive growth in global trade have lifted billions from poverty into the middle class, we’ve learned that carbon derived energy that has fueled this prosperity is now causing an environmental crisis and soon a migration crisis. And the technology that has benefited us in so many ways is also now potentially causing hundreds of millions of people to have their jobs displaced or disrupted by automation and artificial intelligence.
In the face of these changes, U.S. leaders are called to responsibly address our own domestic economic affairs, rebuild the social compact for our citizens, and work with our partners to lead and ensure the security and prosperity of the world.  And these two things are linked. In fact, I would argue that what is happening around the world has never been more important to the safety and prosperity of our citizens. In that regard, we ought to be thinking about how to adapt and reform our overall strategy, our forces and security architecture to a changing world and changing international threat environment. Unfortunately, we are lagging in these responsibilities. Many Western democracies are turning inward. Populism is on the rise everywhere.
And in the United States, we are gripped by a growing sense of nationalism, which I believe is the wrong answer to every question we could ask ourselves.
2020: The Stakes Are High
The stakes in the 2020 election thus could not be higher for all Americans, but especially for young Americans whose futures are on the line.
Another four years of political dysfunction with a complete inability to find common ground and solve some of the basic challenges in our country will undoubtedly continue many of the underlying trends I mentioned and prevent us from addressing the massive debts we are leaving the next generation.
Another four years of backward orientation, of trying to create a world that doesn’t exist anymore and wasn’t as good as it is romanticized, won’t work, instead we should be focusing on the future and harnessing amazing technological innovation to build a better world.
Another four years of highly divisive politics could lead us to a place where we can no longer discuss our differences in a civil matter or argue from a set of shared truths. It could leave us not fighting together for Team USA, as Ron Chernow warned on Saturday night in front of a room full of journalists.
We must not have a president who is hostile to critical institutions, to the first amendment, to the rule of law, to our ethnic and religious diversity and – most importantly – to truth itself. Americans deserve better.
In the areas of national security and foreign policy, I believe the stakes are particularly high.
For decades, the U.S. has worked to build an unmatched portfolio of allies – no other country in the world has anything like it. Our allies are foundational to our ability to operate around the world militarily, diplomatically and economically. They were built not solely out of friendship, but for our own self -interest. Today, based on irresponsible behavior by U.S. leaders, our allies are losing faith in our relationship and our actions are empowering our adversaries.
Across the last several decades, as America’s economic share of the world decreased – largely due to rapid economic growth in other parts of the world – our diplomatic power share maintained and even grew because of U.S. engagement and leadership. Think about how remarkable that is. But I would argue that if our global engagement decreases we should expect our diplomatic power to decrease to reflect our economic share.
If we continue on our current trajectory:
It could mean a dismantling of the global security architecture created and led by the United States that has largely maintained peace and prosperity for us and our allies since the end of World War II.
It could mean a nuclear arms race with Russia and China.  
It could mean the difference between a truly free world and one where despotic leaders have undue influence.
It could lead to a migration or pandemic crisis where global institutions are rendered ineffective in their response capabilities.
And it could mean environmental disaster should the U.S. continue to remain a bystander in the face of climate change.
Righting the ship will take work, but with responsible leadership, it is not only achievable but inevitable. The world is yearning for responsible U.S. leadership.
As President, I will lead the United States in a new direction. America will lead, not alienate. America will move forward, not inward. America will protect the homeland and defend its people and interests at home and abroad. This is an America that acts responsibly – yes responsibly is the keyword – in leading not only our country but also the global community.
This is what I am focused on presenting here today – a foreign policy vision based in American ideals and values, strength, and standing with our allies and alliances.
Before we get into specifics, let me briefly share with you some actions I will take. These actions indicate how I think about the world. I view these as responsible actions:
I will rejoin the Trans-Pacific Partnership
I will rejoin the Paris Climate Agreement, and I will lead a discussion globally as to how we can work together to develop negative emission technologies
I will put arms control at the top of my national security agenda
I will mobilize all federal resources to mount an effective cyber defense
I will develop a new aid and stabilization plan for Central America that will stem the flow of migrants and asylum-seekers to our borders
I will seek to rejoin the JCPOA, but negotiate tougher terms on Iran upon re-entry
I will not seek reductions in defense spending and will work to reposition our military towards the threats of the future
I will call for a new Authorization for Military Force
I will make clear that we stand once again for our ideals and with our allies
A 2020 Vision for National Security – Strength and Leadership Starts at Home
I am running for President to offer my fellow Americans and the world something different – something strong and bold, something based on a deep understanding of the most important trends shaping our world, something that will reestablish the United States’ position as the leader of the international order. I am running to offer my country a responsible approach to the challenges and opportunities we face.  
My vision for our foreign policy and national security starts at home.
A strong homeland is the only basis on which we can sustain a strong national defense and global leadership. Bringing our country together, focusing on solutions, creating opportunity and encouraging responsibility, and restoring the American Dream of upward mobility for all are the fundamental pillars.  In other words, building an America that broadly succeeds economically again is an integral part of my foreign policy strategy. If our country is fiscally imprudent and moving in the wrong direction, if our infrastructure is old and falling apart, if our education and health care systems don’t work, we will sooner or later exhaust our capacity to project power and influence around the world.
As President, I will be committed to building a foundation for our country’s long-term prosperity. We will invest in education, research and development, cutting-edge technologies, infrastructure, vocational training, and workforce development. I will unleash a moon-shot project in innovation in clean energy technologies, negative emission technologies, and carbon capture and transmission. These will be built in America’s heartland, bringing enormous economic growth to struggling communities. And we will restore our country’s long-term fiscal health.
My approach to international relations is based on preserving the foundational principles that have informed U.S. policy for 75 years, while adapting our strategies to protect our interests in the 21st century. This means reaffirming and demonstrating who we are and what we stand for – a proud democracy that supports the cause of freedom and human rights.
My vision ensures that our military remains preeminent, and that our men and women in the U.S. armed forces have the resources they need here and abroad; they will know that we have their backs.
My vision ends the era of ill-advised wars of choice that do not advance our vital national interests. Our ability to prevent war depends to a great extent on the perception of our adversaries that we would defeat them in any conflict.
My vision makes a commitment to diplomacy as the first resort.  Our diplomatic corps can be a powerful force in the world when backed by the world’s strongest military.
But the current Administration is squandering this advantage by hollowing out the State Department. I will support these patriots and I will restore the tools of statecraft needed to give policymakers options other than war.
Similarly, my vision re-enfranchises the men and women of our Intelligence Community to ensure their best efforts to keep our nation secure in support of diplomatic and military efforts.
My vision reaffirms support for our security alliances and supporting relations with allies. I will make it clear to friend and foe that the United States stands by its security commitments.
And my vision reinforces global multilateral institutions that establish rules on issues of critical importance to Americans.  
My vision revives arms control negotiations, putting them high on the national security agenda.
My vision addresses the implications of growing friction with China in the military, economic and technological arenas.
My vision embraces free trade and leverages trade agreements to support U.S. jobs, bolster U.S. exports and to compete in the global economy. Every meeting I have with a world leader will be staffed by my chief diplomat and my chief economic advisor, as I see diplomacy and the economy as inextricably linked.
My vision includes a robust foreign aid program to support global poverty reduction initiatives and to help enhance food security, education, health and women’s rights across the globe, with a particular focus on Africa and South Asia.
My vision calls for rejoining the fight against climate change.
This is a responsible vision. And by being responsible at home and in the world, America will prosper.
New Directions in Strategy and Policy
It is extremely important, however, that Democrats not make the mistake of assuming that all that needs to be done to bolster U.S. security is to reverse the misguided policies and positions of the current Administration.  Given fundamental changes in the global system that have been underway since before Trump took office, it is imperative that we also develop new approaches to emerging challenges.
Despite our current tense relations with Moscow and Beijing, I am calling for candid discussions with both governments. We must try to resolve points of friction or otherwise minimizing issues that have the potential to become triggers for conflict. In the case of Russia, I believe that an adversarial relationship goes against the long-term interests of both countries. Given the demographic and economic challenges Russia faces, it would benefit in the long term from close economic cooperation and friendly relations with the West. But I will make it clear that this can never happen while they interfere in our elections and those of our allies.  
The difference between my approach to Russia and Donald Trump’s is that I believe, as did Ronald Reagan and many of our Cold War leaders, that we can only negotiate successfully with Moscow from a position of significant strength. If we approach Russia from a position of strength–then we can have an honest dialogue about Russia’s interests and role in the world.  A responsible President is clear-eyed about Russia’s motives and tactics, but mindful that dialogue with Russia is always in our self-interest.
Similarly, we have to change our approach to dealing with China’s emergence as a global power. We need to initiate a serious discussion with China about the points of friction that have a very real potential to provoke conflict between our two countries. We must explore whether our differences can be negotiated successfully, or mitigated so as to avoid an unthinkable escalation between two giants. Any responsible conversation with China has to focus on China’s widespread and systematic program of intellectual property theft that has hurt our economy. China has become our rival by doing three things – they made smart investments, they worked hard but they didn’t play by the rules. We cannot allow them to not play by the rules during this next wave of transformative innovation. I will organize a new effort among our allies to hold China accountable. But I will also hold the U.S. private sector accountable. We have laws that prohibit U.S. executives from making payments to foreign leaders. Shouldn’t the same laws prevent them from depositing government funded intellectual property into joint ventures with Chinese companies knowing full well they will be stolen and misappropriated?
To close, I want to share with you my core foreign policy priorities my administration will have on day one. After all, leading is fundamentally about choosing and setting priorities. While these are not in any particular order, together they lay out a responsible agenda.
First, protect the interests and security of the United States. It is a fundamental responsibility of our government to make sure that our people are safe. Anyone seeking the job of Commander in Chief should have that responsibility at the top of mind. We have to take threats seriously. We have to take the fight to our enemies. And we have to make sure that the entire world knows of the extreme consequences associated with harming the United States and our people – just to be clear we have a zero tolerance policy.
This also means securing our borders. It can be done. The experts tell us that a combination of electronics, manpower, fencing, and barriers is needed to curtail unlawful entry into our country.  We also need comprehensive immigration reform, including a path to citizenship. In parallel, I will launch Plan Central America, inspired by the previously successful Plan Colombia, to help the governments in that region overcome the lawlessness that is at the root of population outflow to the U.S.
Second, reassure NATO allies of our commitment to Article 5, the alliance and its anti-terrorism mission. Russia has defined itself as an adversary of the West. Russia continues its efforts to weaken NATO and its members by subversion. This cannot be tolerated. We must counter these actions aggressively.
Third, revive arms control negotiations with Russia and pursue them with China.  We are at risk of a new nuclear arms race with Russia. We must determine whether the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty (INF) is salvageable. I also pledge to seek a new strategic arms agreement between the U.S. and Russia. New Start is the last remaining major U.S.- Russian arms control agreement with major limitations and verification procedures.  It expires on February 5, 2021 – just days after the next president takes office. I will also explore the possibility of arms control with China, particularly in the area of intermediate-range missiles.
Fourth, address Middle East issues.  The Middle East requires the U.S. to remain engaged on issues of concern and we have brave men and women at risk there, and other places in the world, every day.  In each such decision I make in the Middle East, there will be clear goals. For example, in Syria we should not reduce forces until we have a clear understanding of how the Kurds will be protected, that the threat of ISIS is eliminated, that the large numbers of ISIS detainees are dealt with properly and that Iran doesn’t have a military presence on the Israel border.  In Iraq and Afghanistan, our long-term goals are force reduction but accompanied by on-going presence focused on security and anti-terrorism training. I support reviving U.S. participation in the JCPOA.  We can leverage our return to the negotiating table to obtain improvements to the deal as well as to address Iran’s destabilizing activities in the region and beyond.
As for our strategic partnership with Israel, it will remain strong and bipartisan under my presidency.  I am completely committed to the security of Israel and recognize them as one of the most important and enduring allies to the United States. I am firmly against efforts to delegitimize Israel, such as BDS. The issue of how to achieve peace with the Palestinians, who inhabit the same geographic space, remains on the table. For decades, the United States invested considerably in an effort to achieve a two-state solution, which I have always supported and continue to support. But ultimately, for any solution to succeed, it must be the result of direct negotiations between the Israelis and Palestinians.
Fifth, sustain our resolve and focus on defeating terrorists. The tragic killings in Sri Lanka should remind us that we’re in a long-term, worldwide fight requiring determination and endurance.
Sixth, pursue a get-tough approach with China that aims to eliminate Chinese theft of U.S. technology and intellectual property and unfair barriers to American exports and investment. China acts like pirates. Trump’s trade war, however, is proving extremely costly to American producers, workers, and consumers, and I greatly fear that he will settle for short-term Chinese concessions in exchange for surrendering the high ground on technology.  We need to negotiate with China from a position of strength, and that means ending trade wars with our closest friends and allies so that we can join forces in confronting Beijing. It also means rejoining the TPP.
Seventh, lead the fight against global warming.  I will resume U.S. participation in the Paris Climate Agreement, and I pledge that my Administration will harness American ingenuity and international leadership to save our planet from irreversible effects of global warming. I believe that by implementing a carbon tax, investing in green energy research and unleashing the power of negative emissions technologies, the United States can help save the world from the catastrophic effects of climate change. This is a problem that in many ways only old-fashioned U.S. led innovation can solve and if we do it, we will have the added benefit of owning the most valuable technology in the world.
Eighth, meet the challenge of cyberwarfare.  I will propose the creation of a Department of Cybersecurity to bring all U.S. domestic capabilities under a single roof and develop a unified strategy to protect the homeland under a single chain of command.  We need to be prepared to go on the offensive – to carry this fight to adversaries who have come to feel that they can attack us in cyberspace with impunity. While the proposed Department of Cybersecurity will not conduct offensive missions – leaving that to the Department of Defense and the Intelligence Community – it will coordinate with those agencies on all aspects of our nation’s response to cybersecurity threats. Russia will not be dissuaded from attacking our elections unless we make it too painful for them to do so.
Ninth, continue to strengthen our military. A report last year from the National Defense Strategy Commission warned that “America has reached the point of a full-blown national security crisis.” The report warns of decreased air-superiority, lagging investments in the next generation of weapons systems, and advances made by Russia and China that threaten the United States’ historically immense comparative advantage. It is imperative that the United States both strategically focus on the weapons needed for the next generation of warfare and get our fiscal house in order so that we can fund them.  
My friends, the United States is facing a stunning number of serious challenges in the world today. As Churchill said in that very same speech declaring the need for responsible leadership, “The people of the United States cannot escape world responsibility.” Russia seeks a reduction of our role in Europe and China wants to supplant us in Asia.
Our military has been stretched and underinvested in since the sequester began. Meanwhile, there is growing risk of an actual war between India and Pakistan, while our standoff with the nuclear-armed and unpredictable regime in North Korea continues. There are tremendous risks to the next generation and our planet posed by the dangers of global warming. We have seen what one failed state can do to global stability. Imagine the global impact of multiple highly populous states failing due climate change. The next generation also faces unsustainably high levels of sovereign debt which could limit many developed governments ability to respond to crisis. Finally, some estimate that 800 million jobs could be disrupted in the next several decades by automation and artificial intelligence.
We cannot hope to surmount these difficulties if we do not restore our democracy to health and become more united as a people.  In Churchill’s words, “If we are together nothing is impossible. If we are divided all will fail.”
We know that the U.S. can respond to the call for unity and cooperation because we’ve done it before. In 1958, then Senator John F. Kennedy spoke in Baltimore shortly after the Soviets had successfully launched Sputnik. Kennedy said, “let us not despair but act. Let us not seek the Republican answer or the Democratic answer but the right answer.”
It is time for us to respond to today’s challenges with a similar spirit. To work together around a sense of common purpose. Where we leave narrow interests and partisanship behind.
That is what responsible leaders do.
That is what I am offering to my party, and what I hope to offer the country.
Thank you very much.
To help bring people from different backgrounds together, Delaney
is proposing a mandatory national service program to provide
opportunities for young people to give back to their country and to
meet and work with people from all backgrounds.
Every American will complete a minimum of 1 year and a maximum of 2 years of mandatory
national service when they graduate high school, or turn 18
The National Service requirement will apply to individuals born after 2006, but will phase in
over time
To meet the National Service requirement, participants can choose one of four options:
serving in our nation’s military (the requirements and duration will continue as they currently exist)
serving in a new expanded Community Service program
serving in a new National Infrastructure Apprenticeship program
serving in a newly created Climate Corps
Community Service
Community Service would operate similarly to AmeriCorps or the Peace Corps
Participants in the Community Service track would work on projects such as mentoring and literacy tutoring for disadvantaged students, awareness programs for public health campaigns, outreach activities for social service programs, and structured after school care programs
Infrastructure Apprenticeships
The government would enter into public/private partnerships with private companies and trade unions to offer infrastructure apprenticeships
Private companies would be awarded contracts to undertake projects such as improving public parks or renovating federal buildings to make them environmentally green
Trade unions will be utilized as the programs can leverage the successful apprenticeship model used by the trade unions
Those who complete the apprenticeships would receive a professional certificate proving mastery of particular skill sets
To implement infrastructure apprenticeships, all federal contractors would be required to design and implement an apprentice program
Encourage other companies to do their patriotic duty and follow suit, perhaps using a model that’s been tremendously successful in Switzerland, where companies pay students to work as part-time apprentices
Climate Corps
To fight climate change, participants would assist in clean energy projects, including solar
installation, improving building efficiency, developing community gardens, and increasing
awareness about sustainable practices
Provide information and support to families about sustainability, energy efficiency, andrenewable energy
Participants would be stationed in rural and low-income areas to assist communities’ transitionto a green economy and invest in environmentally friendly projects
The program will be paid; the salary/stipend will vary based on regional cost of living and
whether housing is provided through the program
1 year of service will result in 2 years of free in-state tuition and fees at a public university, community college, or technical school
2 years of service will result in 3 years of free in-state tuition and fees at a public university
Learn skills to be used for future jobs
Brings people together by exposing participants to people from different economic backgrounds, people from different parts of the country, and people with different political beliefs, which will restore an understanding of our common American identity and renew belief in our common purpose
Boost for local infrastructure, conservation, and community projects
Creates a nationwide sense of service and patriotism
the biggest problem with Trump is that he's not focused on the future and he's not doing the things we need to do structurally to make our economy more competitive to make our country more entrepreneurial and to position people to succeed in that new economy that we all know is coming Democrats can't win by just attacking the trunk we really have to show the American people there's a better way we have to think about the
future America is going to win by recognizing what's going on across our economy and in people's lives and then focusing on what we can do collectively to make things better that's the American Way John Delaney is a force of nature he can tackle things no one else can tackle and he can make progress on issues that other people get daunted by John just simply doesn't have an equal and his ability to tackle hard things and make progress people listen to John
and they say I can sign up for that plan so unbalanced global trade reshaped and improved our country in the world but it didn't help everyone and no one stood up to make sure entire communities were decimated and those hurt more helped the backbone of our country the people who built our nation and save the world were tragically ignored now there's another big wave of global change happening technological innovation and automation are reshaping
the economy and jobs and the country we need to step up and do the right things inside the Republican solution is to divest healthcare training education that's a backwards approach it's actually time to do the real things we need to do to grow our economy and wages in every part of our country it's time for a new social contract it builds a cleaner safer stronger and more just society John grew up the son of a union electrician hard work decent pay health
care a pension he understands what that means for a working family it was a union scholarship that helped John afford college and building two businesses from scratch John succeeded by working with others like his dad did on a job site he builds teams he's creative and into problem solver and he's always motivated by scent of progressive and ethical values we work with John back in 2004 the strategy was to grow ASG
through the challenge for the larger banks to finance a company like ours John's firm was one of the few that stepped up and gave us the credit facility that made sense to us we went from 150 employees back in 2003 to over a thousand employees today and John Delaney helped peel back growth jobs the progressive businessman and building his companies keep always insisted on the highest of ethical standard he treated people with respect
created jobs with good pay and benefits and always was giving back to the community the Obama administration awarded John's company the bank enterprise award for investing in communities that so many banks under serve and ignore that's classic John always doing more when I ran for Congress I said back then let's stand up for workers instead of big companies or big banks let's invest in our country and
its people but Trump and the Republicans want to roll back laws to protect consumers and our economy that's a huge mistake but attacking banks won't win the day we need to lay out a new approach to economic growth income growth for the middle class and security in the workplace John Delaney has the skill and experience to resolve some of our country's biggest issues John wrote a bill that deals with our two trillion
dollar repatriation issue and our ailing infrastructure which is estimated to be a trillion dollar investment we need to make all the one though it created tens of thousands of jobs it was nonpartisan and very smart on a number of levels and has a support of a lot of members being a progressive means thinking about the future through the lens of people who work who raise families who want their kids to get ahead technology and our global
interconnections will make life better in so many ways but the disruption of jobs alone is a massive challenge and the political system isn't stepping up to deal with it this is bigger than politics in part we need new ideas on the future of work in the context of this rapid technological change and these immense challenges set to unfold for our workers in our economy and we need to bring our people our businesses and our government together to shape a
future that is safe secure and prosperous the time of fighting amongst ourselves must end we need to work for the common good haven't we had enough destructive partisan wars where people put party over country I've been blessed raised in a blue-collar family where an honest day's work was honored and family was everything married for 27 years with amazing woman and the father of four wonderful daughters what guy can
complain about that a successful businessman lucky enough to be elected to Congress in able to serve incredible constituents from an amazingly diverse and beautiful state giving me the chance to fight for the causes I believe in and this I know beyond everything this is not a nation where success is a birthright it's burned it's earned through hard work and it's made possible by a commitment to a shared destiny and then
a set of policies that can and should make it possible we allow ourselves to be divided and we let our political debate curate into an us-versus-them we will fall fall short but if we take these challenges head-on the future is ours
We all know that we're a nation of immigrants. Let me tell my own personal immigration story. It's about my grandfather.
His name was Al Rowe. He came to this country in 1923
with his seven brothers and sisters into Ellis Island When they arrived, young Al was detained. He wasn't let into this country. His seven brothers and sisters were let in but he was detained. And the reason he was detained was because he only had one arm. And back then, in 1923, we didn't let
people with disabilities into our country. They sent him to Staten Island to be deported but his family got him an appeal. The appeal was held in the Great Hall of Ellis Island. Some of you have probably been there. He used to tell the story that he was just a little boy, he goes into this hall, there are hundreds of people, he's scared in the back of the room. And the judge walks in. And as the judge is putting on his robe, My grandfather saw that the judge, also,
had only one arm. And that's the only reason he got let into this country. The one armed judge let in the one armed boy. A little bit of shared humanity which is what I think we need today. But that's a reminder that we are, in fact, all a nation of immigrants. And that's my own personal story.
thank you thank you for that nice introduction it's really great to be with you here this weekend and you see so many great Democrats in one room ready to go ready to fight ready to win right all right so let's I stand before you as someone who has lived the American dream and I'm so grateful for the opportunities this is this amazing country has given me it gave me the opportunity to learn and get a great education and be the first of my family
to go to college it gave me the opportunity to be an entrepreneur and a business builder and create thousands of jobs and get an award from the Obama administration for the work we did in disadvantaged communities right you gotta invest in communities I always used to say business unless someone invests nothing happens and we need more investments in so many communities around this country and I know how to do it the opportunity to serve my country
in the Congress of the United States and fight for kids like myself who grew up in working families I need a shot need an opportunity and most importantly the opportunity to be blessed with an amazing family happily married for 29 years and four daughters that I'm so proud but my story is just getting so much harder these days young people today will be the first generation of Americans that don't actually do better
than their parents think about that the first generation ever we're leaving the debts they can't repay fiscal bets climate bets we're leaving them a world where a half of the American people can't afford a five hundred dollar expense where 40% of hardworking Americans can't afford their basic necessities like their rent their food their utilities how did this happen well it's really simple the world changed really fast technology and globalization
all the stuff we talked about all the stuff we read about has caused so many of our country to be left behind and we didn't do the basic things we should have done a long time ago to prepare that for this world and invest in them and invest in their communities and that was our failure a responsible nation would have created a universal health care system a long time ago absolutely that's what a responsible nation a responsible nation would have looked
at the condition of hardworking Americans and said we're going to do tax policy that helps you and doubled the Earned Income Tax Credit and raise the minimum wage and created that paid family leave these are the kind of things to do if you put the worker at the center of your agenda a responsible nation would have built infrastructure trillions of dollars of infrastructure that there's so many of our communities need we would have done that a long time
ago we reformed our immigration system on issue after issue we have left the American people down so I don't think what the American people need is more gridlock more partisanship or more ideology you know and I think they need they need solutions they need us to get real things done that matter in their lives which is why I believe in what I call the politics of progress sure we should have a battle of ideas sure we should debate the big issues of the day
but what we also need to do is roll up our sleeves and get things done get things done that matter to hardworking Americans you know my dad was an electrician he worked with his hands every day we didn't have any complicated political discussions at the dinner table except for one thing that my bag told me a thousand times he said if you care about workers you vote for the Democrats that was our pudding
and we gotta get back to that we got to be the party that puts forth common-sense solutions not impossible promises where we can actually get real things done that matter to the American people like do things to create jobs in every community do things to invest in infrastructure in every community do things that boost wages in every community create a universal healthcare system improve public education so that every kid no matter the condition of
their birth it's the same educational opportunities as every young person in this country these are the kind of things that have to become the true north of this amazing party of ours and I'm running for president to be the person who can get those things done things that matter to the American people you know in 1958 John F Kennedy gave a speech when he was a senator and he said we should not seek the Republican answer
we should not seek the Democratic answer we should seek the right answer he went on to say we should not seek to fix blame for all the problems of the past we could sit there all day and point fingers but what we should do is own a responsibility for our future as Americans that's where the Democratic Party has to be I don't want to just be your president to be your president I want to be your president to do the job to do the job and the job of the
President of the United States in 2020 is to take this terribly divided nation where an American has been pitted against American and start bringing it back together and reminding us of this notion of common purpose which is worth fighting for every day of our lives and when we do that we can start getting real things done that matter we can start solving problems and we can fulfill our most sacred responsibilities which is to leave this world better than
we have and we can do it but we have to do it together and it is the calling of the Democratic Party and the presidency of the United States thank you for having me in 2020
ladies and gentlemen welcome to the stage Maryland representative John Delaney so good evening wingding come on we can do better than that let me try something else good evening the good Democrats we're going to send JD Shelton to the Congress the United States that's more like it how's everyone doing this evening so in about six months you have an awesome responsibility when you go to caucus and I think you have to ask yourself two
questions the first question is what candidate can beat Donald Trump because we got to send that reckless lawless dishonorable human being out of the White House as soon as possible but to do that we need a candidate that has an economic vision that excites every American whether you're in a city or in a rural community and I've been to all 99 counties so I know what their people are talking about you got to put forth a candidate who's got real solutions to
the challenges we face as a nation not impossible promises you got to put forth a candidate who will build a big tent Democratic Party like we did in 2018 when we flipped the House of Representatives by putting forth candidates that progressives and moderates and independents and even disaffected Republicans can get excited about but the second question I think you have to ask yourself is who should lead our country because we need
leadership badly at this moment in time we need to re-establish our leadership role around the world we need a leader who's committed to finding common ground and getting things done that matter to hardworking Americans at their kitchen table and you know what we need more than anything we need an individual who will restore decency and honor to the office of the presidency and I stand before you Iowa because I believe on the right answer to those two
questions and that's why I'm running for president and maybe it's the journey I've had with my own life you know I've lived the American dream and I'm so grateful for the opportunities this extraordinary country has given me to learn and be the first in my family to go to college to build to businesses and create thousands of jobs to be blessed to be married to an amazing woman for 29 years and have four extraordinary daughters and then the opportunity to
serve my country in the Congress of the United States but my story is getting harder to find you know young people today will be the first generation of Americans that won't do better than their parents and we're also leaving them debts that they will not be able to repay fiscal debts and climate debts so I don't believe what the American people need is more gridlock more partisanship or more rigid ideology I think you need solutions I think we need big ideas like
my plan for universal health care but it preserves choice I think we need massive investments in our country in infrastructure and in basic research which was why I'm proposing the largest investment in infrastructure and research that we've had since the building of the national highway system and the creation of NASA I think we need real solutions to the big issues we face as a nation and not only is that the right way to govern it's the right way
to win you know in 1958 John F Kennedy looked out at the American people and said we shouldn't seek the Republican answer we shouldn't seek the Democratic answer we should seek the right answer and he was right then and he's right today he is right today and this is the calling of the Democratic Party to become the party that the American people so desperately are looking for a party that conducts itself with honor and dignity
and works for hardworking Americans and gets things done that matters in their life and leads us not only here but around the world by getting back in things like the trans-pacific partnership with President Obama was right every acre of land in Iowa would be worth more today if we were in that agreement that's how we beat Trump in Iowa but this has to be our way forward you know our fundamental fundamentally
believe that our most important responsibility is to leave the world better than we found it and the one thing I want to tell you is this is not about me you know there's a great day in all of our lives when we realize it's not about us it's about what we can do for other people that's why I decided to dedicate the rest of my life to public service ten years ago to make a difference in the world so I'm not running for president just to be
your president I'm running for president to do the job to lead to get things done and restore dignity and respect to the most sacred office in the United States of America the office of the presidency god bless you Iowa thank you for having me and have a great wing-dings thank you all thank you
so I have been everywhere good afternoon Iowa how's everyone doing all right good so one of the great privileges of traveling to all 99 counties as I've seen so many familiar faces here this afternoon and it's been great to talk to you particularly in rural Iowa and don't let anyone tell you rural Iowa doesn't matter anymore because I think it does and talk about there you go and talk about how we build the big tent Democratic Party that we
need to win and govern so I stand before you as someone who has lived the American dream and I'm so grateful for all the opportunities this country has given me to be the first in my family to go to college to be a successful entrepreneur to serve my country in the Congress the United States and most importantly to be blessed with an amazing family but these stories are so much harder for young people today why because we stopped doing our job we
stopped doing the basic things we should have done to prepare our citizens for the future I stand before you here today as someone who does not believe that what hardworking Americans need is more ideology more gridlock or more partisanship they need solutions and maybe that's because of where I'm from they do maybe that's because where I'm from my dad was a union electrician he IBEW he wired buildings for a living he did
honest work and when you do honest work you get a building that works you flip on a switch the lights go on you turn a faucet the water comes out one of the many problems with our president is he doesn't build anything he doesn't care if anything works he only cares about himself we need to ensure that America works for hardworking Americans we we do we need to elect a president who's committed to investing and improving public education in this country we need
to elect a president who's committed to combating climate change to reforming our broken immigration system to investing in all communities including rural America and we're dealing with all of the change that's coming from technology but most importantly we need a president who is committed to creating universal health care in the United States of America where everyone gets health care as a basic right of citizenship no Americans should be
worried about whether they can pay for their insulin or worry about their children's health care or worry about whether if they make a decision to get health care that they may be signing up to bankrupt themselves no Americans should worry about that and we know we can do this why do we know that because other countries have done it France has a universal health care system Sweden has a universal health care system the Netherlands has a universal health care
system and Germany has a universal health care system so we can build a universal health care system in the wealthiest nation in the world but the one the one thing about all those countries whose systems we admire none of them have a single-payer universal health care system which shows there are lots of ways of creating universal health care in this country my plan better care gives every American health care as a right it invests in our
communities in that we have high quality health care it puts money against basic research so we can cure cancer and cure Alzheimer's and it gives the American people what they want which is choices that's the best way forward on universal health care and so we need we need to become the party of ideas the party that embraces is debate the party that wants to build a big tent so that progressives who want change moderates who want solutions
independents who just want their elected officials to put the country first and even those disaffected Republicans who look at this president and see that he has no moral compass and have turned their back on that party if we become that party we're gonna win every election and more importantly we'll be able to govern because whether it's creating universal health care or dealing with climate change or investing in communities that are left behind or
rebuilding our infrastructure reforming our immigration system creating universal pre-k having more early childhood education making Community College free launching national service or dealing with all the blessings of Technology and making sure the American people are equipped to deal with it on all of these issues there's a common sense way forward and let's build that big coalition party and govern and lead this country god bless you thank you