China is engaged in a program of mass internment and cultural genocide against the Uighur people . It has also been steadily eroding liberal democracy in Hong Kong . Unfortunately , the United States has limited options when it comes to pressuring Beijing to change its policies . But that does not mean that we should , as the Trump administration has done , abandon our role in promoting human rights , whether at the United Nations or as part of our ongoing trade negotiations with China . My administration will work with allies to strengthen global human rights standards and make every effort to let Beijing know that its behavior is damaging its international standing and undermining relations with the United States .
Yes . The agreement achieved by the US , Europe , Russia and China with Iran is one of the strongest anti - nuclear agreements ever negotiated . It prevented a war and blocked Iran ' s path to a nuclear weapon . I would re - enter the agreement on day one of my presidency and then work with the P 5 + 1 and Iran to build upon it with additional measures to further block any path to a nuclear weapon , restrain Iran ' s offensive actions in the region and forge a new strategic balance in the Middle East .
Yes , and then continue negotiations . Every step we take to reduce North Korea ' s nuclear force , to open it up to inspections , to end the 70 - year - old Korean War and to encourage peaceful relations between the Koreas and the United States increases the chances of complete denuclearization of the peninsula . Peace and nuclear disarmament must proceed in parallel , in close consultations with our South Korean ally . I will work to negotiate a step - by - step process to roll back North Korea ' s nuclear program , build a new peace and security regime on the peninsula and work towards the eventual elimination of all North Korean nuclear weapons .
The framework put in place by the Obama Administration ' the European Reassurance Initiative and multilateral sanctions ' seems to have helped contain Russian aggression in Ukraine . My administration will make clear to Russia that additional aggression will force the United States to increase pressure , including expanding beyond current sanctions . For now , our main priority should be to work closely with our European allies to help the new Ukrainian government make good on its promises to reform the economy , improve standards of living , and substantially reduce corruption .
I would withdraw U . S . military forces from Afghanistan as expeditiously as possible . Our military has now been in Afghanistan for nearly eighteen years . We will soon have troops in Afghanistan who were not even born on September 11 , 2001 . It ' s time to end our intervention there and bring our troops home , in a planned and coordinated way combined with a serious diplomatic and political strategy which helps deliver desperately needed humanitarian aid . Withdrawing troops does not mean withdrawing all involvement , and my administration would stay politically engaged in these countries and do whatever we can to help them develop their economy and strengthen a government that is responsible to its people .
The reality is that the U . S .- Saudi relationship needs to change . It is based on cheap oil , millions of dollars of arms sales , a complete disregard for Saudi Arabia ' s human rights violations , and willful blindness when it comes to Saudi ' s spread of religious radicalism . We must immediately end our support for Saudi Arabia ' s carnage in Yemen and clearly signal Riyadh that we categorically reject their not - too - unsubtle efforts to drag the US into a conflict with Iran . But we must also recognize that for the sake of stability in the Middle East , Saudi Arabia needs to be part of the solution . It ' s a hard reality that the United States sometimes has to work with undemocratic governments to protect our own security , but we should also recognize that relying on corrupt authoritarian regimes to deliver us security is a losing bet . Democratic governments that are accountable to their own people , which share our values and have open societies make far better partners in the long term .
Yes , the parameters of that solution are well known . They are based in international law , in multiple United Nations Security Council resolutions , and are supported by an overwhelming international consensus : Two states based on the 1967 lines , with Jerusalem as the capital of both states . Ultimately , it ' s up to the Palestinians and Israelis themselves to make the choices necessary for a final agreement , but the United States has a major role to play in brokering that agreement . My administration would also be willing to bring real pressure to bear on both sides , including conditioning military aid , to create consequences for moves that undermine the chances for peace .
My administration would support the negotiations between the Maduro government and the opposition , and work with other countries in our region , and the international community , to support the Venezuelan people ' s right to build their own future . The United States should support the rule of law , fair elections and self - determination in Venezuela , as we should elsewhere . We would condemn the use of violence against unarmed protesters and the suppression of dissent . We would also listen to the voices of Venezuelan activists themselves who warn against broad sanctions , such as the Trump administration ' s oil sanctions , that mainly punish the people , not the government . My administration would not be in the business of regime change . The United States has a long history of inappropriately intervening in Latin American countries ; we must not go down that road again .
America must create room for Africa to play a greater role in setting the global agenda or else we will repeat the colonialist / imperialist history of the 19 th and 20 th century that suppressed African opinions and impoverished Africa . Our global institutions , like the IMF , World Bank and UN Security Council ( which we lead ) must reflect the changing global demographics and add Africa to leadership roles . For too long we have been comfortable with Africa taking a back seat in setting the global agenda and being responsible for world peace . The US is about 5 percent of the world ' s population and consumes about 25 % of the world ' s resources to live the way that it does . We must invest in making Africa more efficient than the rest of the world in order to avoid resources wars , which are already happening . Supporting the UN sustainable development goals is a critical part of this . We can explore tax breaks to these sort of Sustainable Development Goal investors who are investing in making the world more efficient .
Under no circumstance would we rejoin the Trans - Pacific Partnership under a Sanders Administration . I helped lead the effort against this disastrous unfettered trade agreement . The TPP follows in the footsteps of other unfettered free trade agreements like NAFTA , CAFTA and the Permanent Normalized Trade Agreement with China ( PNTR ). These treaties have forced American workers to compete against desperate and low - wage labor around the world . The result has been massive job losses in the United States and the shutting down of tens of thousands of factories .
Re - joining the TPP would not bring back one American job that has been outsourced to China . Instead , it would force more American workers to compete with desperate workers in Vietnam who make less than a dollar an hour and migrant computer workers in Malaysia who are working as modern - day slaves . It is bad enough to force U . S . workers to compete with low - wage labor ; they should not be forced to compete with no - wage labor .
We need to fundamentally rewrite our trade policies to benefit American workers , not just the CEOs of large , multi - national corporations . Rejoining the TPP would be a betrayal of American workers and a step in the wrong direction .
Solving our climate crisis requires a major diplomatic campaign . A major goal of U . S . foreign policy should be to create the conditions for all countries to transition to carbon - neutral energy . That includes developing countries that burn coal . The first thing we must do is act aggressively to decarbonize our own economy so that we have the credibility and influence to lead . As we do so , we should orchestrate a multilateral campaign  ' a Green New Deal for the World  ' to coordinate investment in green technology and make that technology widely available through long - term financing for the poor countries that currently depend on coal and other fossil fuels .
For greatest accomplishments , I would name two . First , the extremely radical foreign policy initiative called the Marshall Plan . Historically , when countries won terrible wars , they exacted retribution on the vanquished . But in 1948 , the United States government did something absolutely unprecedented . After losing hundreds of thousands of soldiers in the most brutal war in history to defeat the barbarity of Nazi Germany and Japanese imperialism , the government of the United States decided not to punish and humiliate the losers . Rather , we helped rebuild their economies , spending the equivalent of $ 130 billion just to reconstruct Western Europe after World War II . We also provided them support to reconstruct democratic societies . Despite centuries of hostility , there has not been a major European war since World War II . That is an extraordinary foreign policy success that we should be very proud of .
The second was supporting the creation of the United Nations , which former First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt called  ' our greatest hope for future peace .  ' It is fashionable to bash the UN , which can be ineffective , bureaucratic , too slow or unwilling to act , even in the face of massive atrocities . But to see only its weaknesses is to overlook the enormously important work the UN does in promoting global health , aiding refugees , monitoring elections , and doing international peacekeeping missions , among other things . All of these activities contribute to reduced conflict , to wars that don ' t have to be ended because they never start .
The biggest blunder is the war in Iraq , which I strongly opposed . The war in Iraq led to the deaths of some 4 , 400 U . S . troops and the wounding of tens of thousands of others ' not to mention the pain inflicted on wives and children and parents . It led to the deaths of hundreds of thousands Iraqi civilians and the displacement of millions . It created a cascade of instability around the region that we will be dealing with for many years to come . It cost trillions of dollars , money that should have been spent on health care , education , infrastructure , and environmental protection , distracted us from pressing issues like climate change , and undermined our ability to work with allies to address other challenges .
The likely assassination of the Saudi critic and Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi underscores how urgent it has become for the United States to redefine our relationship with Saudi Arabia , and to show that the Saudis do not have a blank check to continue violating human rights .
One place we can start is by ending United States support for the war in Yemen . Not only has this war created a humanitarian disaster in one of the world ' s poorest countries , but also American involvement in this war has not been authorized by Congress and is therefore unconstitutional .
In March 2015 , a coalition of Arab states led by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates started a war against Yemen ' s Houthi rebels . Since then , many thousands of civilians have been killed and many more have lost their homes . Millions are now at the risk of the most severe famine in more than 100 years , according to the United Nations . The chaos in Yemen has also provided fertile ground for extremist groups like Al Qaeda and the Islamic State , and created new opportunities for intervention by Iran .
The United States is deeply engaged in this war . We are providing bombs the Saudi - led coalition is using , we are refueling their planes before they drop those bombs , and we are assisting with intelligence .
In far too many cases , the bomb ' s targets have been civilian ones . In one of the more horrible recent instances , an American - made bomb obliterated a school bus full of young boys , killing dozens and wounding many more . A CNN report found evidence that American weapons have been used in a string of such deadly attacks on civilians since the war began .
Yet last month , responding to congressional concerns , Secretary of State Mike Pompeo officially certified to Congress  ' and Secretary of Defense James Mattis affirmed  ' that the Saudis and Emiratis are making  ' every effort to reduce the risk of civilian casualties .  '
The data refute these claims . According to the independent monitoring group Yemen Data Project , between March 2015 and March 2018 , more than 30 percent of the Saudi - led coalition ' s targets have been nonmilitary . According to the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data project , civilian deaths in one region increased by more than 160 percent over the summer from earlier in the year .
People inside the administration understand these facts . Several days after Mr . Pompeo issued the certification , The Wall Street Journal reported that he had overruled the State Department ' s own regional and military experts , siding instead with members of his legislative affairs staff who argued that not certifying could endanger United States arms sales to the Saudis and Emiratis . President Trump himself echoed this logic when asked about the murder of Mr . Khashoggi , claiming that the Saudis are spending  '$ 110 billion ' on military equipment .
It gets worse . The Intercept reported that a former lobbyist for the arms manufacturer Raytheon , which stands to make billions of dollars from those sales , leads Mr . Pompeo ' s legislative affairs staff .
Here ' s What ' s Happening in the American Teenage Bedroom
The administration defends our engagement in Yemen by overstating Iranian support for the Houthi rebels . But the fact is that the relationship between Iran and the Houthis has only strengthened with the intensification of the war . The war is creating the very problem the administration claims to want to solve .
 ' The war is a strategic and moral disaster for the United States .  '
The war is also undermining the broader effort against violent extremists . A 2016 State Department report found that the conflict between Saudi - led forces and the Houthi insurgents had helped Al Qaeda and the Islamic State ' s Yemen branch  ' deepen their inroads across much of the country .  ' As the head of the International Rescue Committee , David Miliband , said in a recent interview ,  ' The winners are the extremist groups like Al Qaeda and ISIS .  '
Above and beyond the catastrophe that this war has created , there is the fact that American engagement there has not been authorized by Congress , and is therefore unconstitutional . Article I of the Constitution clearly states that it is Congress , not the president , that has the power to declare war . Over many years , Congress has allowed that power to ebb . That must change .
In February , along with two of my colleagues , Mike Lee , Republican of Utah , and Chris Murphy , Democrat of Connecticut , I introduced Senate Joint Resolution 54 , calling on the president to withdraw from the Saudi - led war in Yemen . We did this for two reasons . The first is that the war is a strategic and moral disaster for the United States . The second is that the time is long overdue for Congress to reassert authority over matters of war .
The Senate voted 55 to 44 to delay consideration of the resolution . Since then , this crisis has only worsened and our complicity become even greater .
Next month , I intend to bring that resolution back to the floor . We will be adding more co - sponsors , and colleagues in the House have offered a similar measure . The brutal murder of Mr . Khashoggi demands that we make clear that United States support for Saudi Arabia is not unconditional .
I very much hope that Congress will act , that we will finally take seriously our congressional duty , end our support for the carnage in Yemen , and send the message that human lives are worth more than profits for arms manufacturers .
Thank you so much Dean Nasr for your introduction , to Johns Hopkins for inviting me here , and for all of you joining me here today , as well of those of you watching online .
In the United States , we pay a whole lot of attention to issues impacting the economy , healthcare , education , environment , criminal justice , immigration and , as we have recently seen , Supreme Court nominees . These are all enormously important issues .
With the exception of immediate and dramatic crises , however , foreign policy is not something that usually gets a whole lot of attention or debate . In fact , some political analysts have suggested that by and large we have a one - party foreign policy , where the basic elements of our approach are not often debated or challenged .
We spend $ 700 billion a year on the military , more than the next 10 nations combined . We have been at war in Afghanistan for 17 years , war in Iraq for 15 years , and we are currently involved militarily in Yemen - where a humanitarian crisis is taking place .
Meanwhile , 30 million people have no health insurance , our infrastructure is collapsing , and hundreds of thousands of bright young people cannot afford to go to college every year .
The time is long overdue for a vigorous discussion about our foreign policy , and how it needs to change in this new era .
Today , I want to say a few words about a troubling trend in global affairs that gets far too little attention . There is currently a struggle of enormous consequence taking place in the United States and throughout the world . In it we see two competing visions . On one hand , we see a growing worldwide movement toward authoritarianism , oligarchy , and kleptocracy . On the other side , we see a movement toward strengthening democracy , egalitarianism , and economic , social , racial , and environmental justice .
This struggle has consequences for the entire future of the planet -- economically , socially , and environmentally .
In terms of the global economy , we see today massive and growing wealth and income inequality , where the world ' s top one percent now owns more wealth than the bottom 99 %, where a small number of huge financial institutions exert enormous impact over the lives of billions of people .
Further , many people in industrialized countries are questioning whether democracy can actually deliver for them . They are working longer hours for lower wages than they used to . They see big money buying elections , and they see a political and economic elite growing wealthier , even as their own children ' s future grows dimmer .
In these countries , we often have political leaders who exploit these fears by amplifying resentments , stoking intolerance and fanning ethnic and racial hatreds among those who are struggling . We see this very clearly in our own country . It is coming from the highest level of our government .
It should be clear by now that Donald Trump and the right - wing movement that supports him is not a phenomenon unique to the United States . All around the world , in Europe , in Russia , in the Middle East , in Asia , Latin America , and elsewhere we are seeing movements led by demagogues who exploit people ' s fears , prejudices and grievances to gain and hold on to power .
Just this past weekend , in Brazil ' s presidential election , right - wing leader Jair Bolsonaro , who has been called  ' The Donald Trump of Brazil ,  ' made a very strong showing in the first round of voting , coming up just short of an outright victory . Bolsonaro has a long record of attacks against immigrants , against minorities , against women , against LGBT people . Bolsonaro , who has said he loves Donald Trump , has praised Brazil ' s former military dictatorship , and has said , among other things , that in order to deal with crime , police should simply be allowed to shoot more criminals . This is the person who may soon lead the world ' s fifth most populous country , and its ninth largest economy .
Meanwhile , Brazil ' s most popular politician , the former president Lula da Silva , is imprisoned on highly questionable charges , and prevented from running again .
Bolsonaro in Brazil is one example , there are others which I will discuss . But I think it is important that we understand that what we are seeing now in the world is the rise of a new authoritarian axis .
While the leaders who make up this axis may differ in some respects , they share key attributes : intolerance toward ethnic and religious minorities , hostility toward democratic norms , antagonism toward a free press , constant paranoia about foreign plots , and a belief that the leaders of government should be able use their positions of power to serve their own selfish financial interests .
Interestingly , many of these leaders are also deeply connected to a network of multi - billionaire oligarchs who see the world as their economic plaything .
Those of us who believe in democracy , who believe that a government must be accountable to its people and not the other way around , must understand the scope of this challenge if we are to confront it effectively . We need to counter oligarchic authoritarianism with a strong global progressive movement that speaks to the needs of working people , that recognizes that many of the problems we are faced with are the product of a failed status quo . We need a movement that unites people all over the world who don ' t just seek to return to a romanticized past , a past that did not work for so many , but who strive for something better .
While this authoritarian trend certainly did not begin with Donald Trump , there ' s no question that other authoritarian leaders around the world have drawn inspiration from the fact that the president of the world ' s oldest and most powerful democracy is shattering democratic norms , is viciously attack an independent media and an independent judiciary , and is scapegoating the weakest and most vulnerable members of our society .
For example , Saudi Arabia is a country clearly inspired by Trump . This is a despotic dictatorship that does not tolerate dissent , that treats women as third - class citizens , and has spent the last several decades exporting a very extreme form of Islam around the world . Saudi Arabia is currently devastating the country of Yemen in a catastrophic war in alliance with the United States .
I would like to take a moment to note the disappearance of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi , a critic of the Saudi government who was last seen entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul , Turkey , last Tuesday . Over the weekend , Turkish authorities told reporters that they now believe Khashoggi was murdered in the Saudi consulate , and his body disposed of elsewhere . We need to know what happened here . If this is true , if the Saudi regime murdered a journalist critic in their own consulate , there must be accountability , and there must be an unequivocal condemnation by the United States . But it seems clear that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman feels emboldened by the Trump administration ' s unquestioning support .
Further , it is hard to imagine that a country like Saudi Arabia would have chosen to start a fight this past summer with Canada over a relatively mild human rights criticism if Muhammad bin Salman  ' who is very close with Presidential son - in - law Jared Kushner  ' did not believe that the United States would stay silent . Three years ago , who would have imagined that the United States would refuse to take sides between Canada , our democratic neighbor and second largest trading partner , and Saudi Arabia on an issue of human rights  ' but that is exactly what happened .
It ' s also hard to imagine that Israel ' s Netanyahu government would have taken a number of steps  ' including passing the recent  ' Nation State law ,  ' which essentially codifies the second - class status of Israel ' s non - Jewish citizens , aggressively undermining the longstanding goal of a two - state solution , and ignoring the economic catastrophe in Gaza -- if Netanyahu wasn ' t confident that Trump would support him .
And then there is Trump ' s cozy relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin , whose intervention in our 2016 presidential election Trump still fails to fully admit . We face an unprecedented situation of an American president who for whatever reason refuses to acknowledge this attack on American democracy . Why is that ? I am not sure what the answer is . Either he really doesn ' t understand what has happened , or he is under Russian influence because of compromising information they may have on him , or because he is ultimately more sympathetic to Russia ' s strongman form of government than he is to American democracy .
Even as he draws closer to authoritarian leaders like Putin , like Orban in Hungary , Erdogan in Turkey , Duterte in the Philippines , and North Korea ' s Kim Jong Un , Trump is needlessly increasing tensions with our democratic European allies over issues like trade , like NATO , like the Iran nuclear agreement . Let me be clear , these are important issues . But the way Trump has gratuitously disrespected these allies is not only ineffective deal - making , it will have enormous negative long - term consequences for the trans - Atlantic alliance .
Further , Trump ' s ambassador to Germany , Richard Grenell , several months ago made clear the administration ' s support for right - wing extremist parties across Europe . In other words , the U . S . administration is openly siding with the very forces challenging the democratic foundations of our longtime allies .
We need to understand that the struggle for democracy is bound up with the struggle against kleptocracy and corruption . That is true here in the United States as well as abroad . In addition to Trump ' s hostility toward democratic institutions here in the United States , we have a billionaire president who , according to a recent report in the New York Times , acquired his wealth through illegal means , and now , as president , in an unprecedented way , has blatantly embedded his own economic interests and those of his cronies into the policies of government .
One of the consistent themes of reports coming out of the investigation into the Trump campaign is the effort of wealthy foreign interests seeking influence and access with Trump and his organization , and with close Trump associates seeking to trade that access for the promise of even more wealth . While the characters involved in these reports are particularly blatant and clumsy in their efforts , the details of these stories are not unique .
Never before have we seen the power of big money over governmental policy so clearly . Whether we ' re talking about the Koch brothers spending hundreds of millions of dollars to dismantle environmental regulations that protect Americans ' health , or authoritarian monarchies like Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates , and Qatar spending millions in fossil fuel wealth in Washington to advance the interests of their undemocratic regimes , or giant corporations supporting think tanks in order to produce policy recommendations that serve their own financial interests , the theme is the same . Powerful special interests use their wealth to influence government for their own selfish interests .
During the Congressional fight over the Republicans ' massive tax giveaway to the wealthy , some of my colleagues were very open this . Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina was very frank : If Republicans failed to pass the bill , he said  ' the financial contributions will stop .  ' This , he went on ,  ' will be the end of us as a party .  ' I applaud Senator Graham for his honesty .
This corruption is so blatant , it ' s no longer seen as remarkable . Just the other day , the lead sentence in a New York Times story about Republican mega - donor Sheldon Adelson was this :  ' The return on investment for many of the Republican Party ' s biggest political patrons has been less than impressive this year .  '
Let me repeat that :  ' The return on investment was less than impressive .  ' The idea that political donors expect a specific policy result in exchange for their contributions  ' a quid pro quo , the definition of corruption  ' is right out there in the open . It is no longer even seen as scandalous .
This sort of corruption is common among authoritarian regimes . In Russia , it is impossible to tell where the decisions of government end and the interests of Putin and his circle of multi - billionaire oligarchs begin . They operate as one unit . Similarly , in Saudi Arabia , there is no debate about separation because the natural resources of the state , valued at trillions of dollars , belong to the Saudi royal family .
In Hungary , far - right authoritarian - nationalist leader Victor Orban models himself after Putin in Russia , saying in a January interview that ,  ' Putin has made his country great again .  ' Like Putin , Orban has risen to power by exploiting paranoia and intolerance of minorities , including outrageous anti - Semitic attacks on George Soros , but at the same time has managed to enrich his political allies and himself . In February , the Corruption Perception Index compiled by Transparency International ranked Hungary as the second most corrupt EU country .
We must understand that these authoritarians are part of a common front . They are in close contact with each other , share tactics and , as in the case of European and American right - wing movements , even share some of the same funders . For example , the Mercer family , supporters of the infamous Cambridge Analytica , have also been key backers of Donald Trump and of Breitbart news , which operates in Europe , the United States and Israel to advance the same anti - immigrant , anti - Muslim agenda . Sheldon Adelson gives generously to the Republican Party and right - wing causes in both the United States and Israel , promoting a shared agenda of intolerance and bigotry in both countries .
The truth is , however , that to effectively oppose right - wing authoritarianism , we cannot simply be on the defensive . We need to be proactive and understand that just defending the failed status quo of the last several decades is not good enough . In fact , we need to recognize that the challenges we face today are a product of that status quo .
What do I mean by that ?
Here in the United States , in the UK , in France , and in many other countries around the world , people are working longer hours for stagnating wages , and worry that their children will have a lower standard of living than they do .
So our job is not to accept the status quo , not to accept massive levels of wealth and income inequality where the top 1 % of the world ' s population own half the planet ' s wealth , while the bottom 70 % of the working age population account for just 2 . 7 % of global wealth . It is not to accept a declining standard of living for many workers around the world , not to accept a reality of 1 . 4 billion people living in extreme poverty where millions of children die of easily preventable illnesses .
Our job is to fight for a future in which public policy and new technology and innovation work to benefit all of the people , not just the few .
Our job is to support governments around the world that will end the absurdity of the rich and multinational corporations stashing over $ 21 trillion dollars in offshore bank accounts to avoid paying their fair share of taxes , and then demanding that their respective governments impose an austerity agenda on their working families .
Our job is to rally the entire planet to stand up to the fossil fuel industry which continues to make huge profits while their carbon emissions destroy the planet for our children and grandchildren .
The scientific community is virtually unanimous in telling us that climate change is real , climate change is caused by human activity , and climate change is already causing devastating harm throughout the world . Further , what the scientists tell us is that if we do not act boldly to address the climate crisis , this planet will see more drought , more floods , more extreme weather disturbances , more acidification of the ocean , more rising sea levels , and , as a result of mass migrations , there will be more threats to global stability and security .
A new report from the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change released just yesterday warns that we only have about twelve years to take urgent and unprecedented action to prevent a rise in the planet ' s temperature that would cause irreversible damage .
The threat of climate change is a very clear example of where American leadership can make a difference . Europe can ' t do it alone , China can ' t do it alone , and the United States can ' t do it alone . This is a crisis that calls out for strong international cooperation if we are to leave our children and grandchildren a planet that is healthy and habitable . American leadership  ' the economic and scientific advantages and incentives that only America can offer  ' is hugely important for facilitating this effort .
In the struggle to preserve and expand democracy , our job is to fight back against the coordinated effort , strongly supported by the president and funded by oligarchs like the Koch brothers , to make it harder to for American citizens  ' often people of color , poor people , and young people  ' to vote . Not only do oligarchs want to buy elections , but voter suppression is a key element of their plan to maintain power .
Our job is to push for trade policies that don ' t just benefit large multinational corporations and hurt working people throughout the world as they are written out of public view .
Our job is to fight back against brutal immigration policies that require separating migrant families when they are detained at the border , and require children to be put in cages . Migrants and refugees should be treated with compassion and respect when they reach Europe or the United States . Yes , we need better international cooperation to address the flow of migrants across borders , but the solution is not to build walls and amplify the cruelty toward those fleeing impossible conditions as a deterrence strategy .
Our job is to make sure that we commit more resources to taking care of people than we do on weapons designed to kill them . It is not acceptable that , with the Cold War long behind us , countries around the world spend over a trillion dollars a year on weapons of destruction , while millions of children die of easily treatable diseases .
According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute , countries around the world spend a total of $ 1 . 7 trillion a year on the military . $ 1 . 7 trillion . Think of what we could accomplish if even a fraction of this amount were redirected to more peaceful ends ? The head of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization has said we could end the global food crisis for $ 30 billion a year . That ' s less than two percent of what we spend on weapons .
Columbia University ' s Jeffrey Sachs , one of the world ' s leading experts on economic development and the fight against poverty , has estimated that the cost to end world poverty is $ 175 billion per year for 20 years , about ten percent of what the world spends on weapons .
Donald Trump thinks we should spend more on these weapons . I think we should spend less .
Let us remember what President Dwight D . Eisenhower said in 1953 , just a few months after taking office .  ' Every gun that is made , every warship launched , every rocket fired signifies , in the final sense , a theft from those who hunger and are not fed , those who are cold and are not clothed . This world in arms is not spending money alone . It is spending the sweat of its laborers , the genius of its scientists , the hopes of its children .  '
And just as he was about to leave office in 1961 , Eisenhower was so concerned the growing power of the weapons industry that he issued this warning :  ' In the councils of government , we must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence , whether sought or unsought , by the military industrial complex . The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced power exists and will persist .  ' We have seen that potential more than fulfilled over the past decades . It is time for us to stand up and say : There is a better way to use our wealth .
In closing , let me simply that in order to effectively combat the forces of global oligarchy and authoritarianism , we need an international movement that mobilizes behind a vision of shared prosperity , security and dignity for all people , and that addresses the massive global inequality that exists , not only in wealth but in political power .
Such a movement must be willing to think creatively and boldly about the world that we would like to see . While the authoritarian axis is committed to tearing down a post - World War II global order that they see as limiting their access to power and wealth , it is not enough for us to simply defend that order as it exists .
We must look honestly at how that order has failed to deliver on many of its promises , and how authoritarians have adeptly exploited those failures in order to build support for their agenda . We must take the opportunity to reconceptualize a global order based on human solidarity , an order that recognizes that every person on this planet shares a common humanity , that we all want our children to grow up healthy , to have a good education , have decent jobs , drink clean water , breathe clean air and to live in peace . Our job is to reach out to those in every corner of the world who shares these values , and who are fighting for a better world .
Authoritarians seek power by promoting division and hatred . We will promote unity and inclusion .
In a time of exploding wealth and technology , we have the potential to create a decent life for all people . Our job is to build on our common humanity and do everything that we can to oppose all of the forces , whether unaccountable government power or unaccountable corporate power , who try to divide us up and set us against each other . We know that those forces work together across borders . We must do the same .
Thank you very much .
There is a global struggle taking place of enormous consequence . Nothing less than the future of the planet  ' economically , socially and environmentally  ' is at stake .
At a time of massive wealth and income inequality , when the world ' s top 1 % now owns more wealth than the bottom 99 %, we are seeing the rise of a new authoritarian axis .
While these regimes may differ in some respects , they share key attributes : hostility toward democratic norms , antagonism toward a free press , intolerance toward ethnic and religious minorities , and a belief that government should benefit their own selfish financial interests . These leaders are also deeply connected to a network of multi - billionaire oligarchs who see the world as their economic plaything .
Those of us who believe in democracy , who believe that a government must be accountable to its people , must understand the scope of this challenge if we are to effectively confront it .
It should be clear by now that Donald Trump and the rightwing movement that supports him is not a phenomenon unique to the United States . All around the world , in Europe , in Russia , in the Middle East , in Asia and elsewhere we are seeing movements led by demagogues who exploit people ' s fears , prejudices and grievances to achieve and hold on to power .
This trend certainly did not begin with Trump , but there ' s no question that authoritarian leaders around the world have drawn inspiration from the fact that the leader of the world ' s oldest and most powerful democracy seems to delight in shattering democratic norms .
Three years ago , who would have imagined that the United States would stay neutral between Canada , our democratic neighbor and second largest trading partner , and Saudi Arabia , a monarchic , client state that treats women as third - class citizens ? It ' s also hard to imagine that Israel ' s Netanyahu government would have moved to pass the recent  ' nation state law ', which essentially codifies the second - class status of Israel ' s non - Jewish citizens , if Benjamin Netanyahu didn ' t know Trump would have his back .
All of this is not exactly a secret . As the US continues to grow further and further apart from our longtime democratic allies , the US ambassador to Germany recently made clear the Trump administration ' s support for rightwing extremist parties across Europe .
In addition to Trump ' s hostility toward democratic institutions we have a billionaire president who , in an unprecedented way , has blatantly embedded his own economic interests and those of his cronies into the policies of government .
Other authoritarian states are much farther along this kleptocratic process . In Russia , it is impossible to tell where the decisions of government end and the interests of Vladimir Putin and his circle of oligarchs begin . They operate as one unit . Similarly , in Saudi Arabia , there is no debate about separation because the natural resources of the state , valued at trillions of dollars , belong to the Saudi royal family . In Hungary , far - right authoritarian leader Viktor Orb ' n is openly allied with Putin in Russia . In China , an inner circle led by Xi Jinping has steadily consolidated power , clamping down on domestic political freedom while it aggressively promotes a version of authoritarian capitalism abroad .
We must understand that these authoritarians are part of a common front . They are in close contact with each other , share tactics and , as in the case of European and American rightwing movements , even share some of the same funders . The Mercer family , for example , supporters of the infamous Cambridge Analytica , have been key backers of Trump and of Breitbart News , which operates in Europe , the United States and Israel to advance the same anti - immigrant , anti - Muslim agenda . Republican megadonor Sheldon Adelson gives generously to rightwing causes in both the United States and Israel , promoting a shared agenda of intolerance and illiberalism in both countries .
spot
The truth is , however , that to effectively oppose rightwing authoritarianism , we cannot simply go back to the failed status quo of the last several decades . Today in the United States , and in many other parts of the world , people are working longer hours for stagnating wages , and worry that their children will have a lower standard of living than they do .
Our job is to fight for a future in which new technology and innovation works to benefit all people , not just a few . It is not acceptable that the top 1 % of the world ' s population owns half the planet ' s wealth , while the bottom 70 % of the working age population accounts for just 2 . 7 % of global wealth .
Together governments of the world must come together to end the absurdity of the rich and multinational corporations stashing over $ 21 tn in offshore bank accounts to avoid paying their fair share of taxes and then demanding that their respective governments impose an austerity agenda on their working families .
It is not acceptable that the fossil fuel industry continues to make huge profits while their carbon emissions destroy the planet for our children and grandchildren .
It is not acceptable that a handful of multinational media giants , owned by a small number of billionaires , largely control the flow of information on the planet .
It is not acceptable that trade policies that benefit large multinational corporations and encourage a race to the bottom hurt working people throughout the world as they are written out of public view .
It is not acceptable that , with the cold war long behind us , countries around the world spend over $ 1 tn a year on weapons of destruction , while millions of children die of easily treatable diseases .
In order to effectively combat the rise of the international authoritarian axis , we need an international progressive movement that mobilizes behind a vision of shared prosperity , security and dignity for all people , and that addresses the massive global inequality that exists , not only in wealth but in political power .
Such a movement must be willing to think creatively and boldly about the world that we would like to see . While the authoritarian axis is committed to tearing down a post - second world war global order that they see as limiting their access to power and wealth , it is not enough for us to simply defend that order as it exists now .
We must look honestly at how that order has failed to deliver on many of its promises , and how authoritarians have adeptly exploited those failures in order to build support for their agenda . We must take the opportunity to reconceptualize a genuinely progressive global order based on human solidarity , an order that recognizes that every person on this planet shares a common humanity , that we all want our children to grow up healthy , to have a good education , have decent jobs , drink clean water , breathe clean air and live in peace .
Our job is to reach out to those in every corner of the world who share these values , and who are fighting for a better world .
In a time of exploding wealth and technology , we have the potential to create a decent life for all people . Our job is to build on our common humanity and do everything that we can to oppose all of the forces , whether unaccountable government power or unaccountable corporate power , who try to divide us up and set us against each other . We know that those forces work together across borders . We must do the same .
Let me begin by congratulating Chloe Kim , a first - generation American , who won a gold medal for the United States in the women ' s halfpipe snowboarding event this week .
Her father , Jong Jin Kim , emigrated from South Korea to the United States in 1982 , became a dishwasher at a fast food restaurant . He studied engineering at El Camino College after working at low - skill jobs and then became an engineer . He left his engineering job to support his daughter ' s snowboarding ambitions , so that he could drive her 5 and a half hours to the mountain for training .
Congratulations to Chloe and her entire family . You make the United States proud .
The whole debate that we are now undertaking over immigration and the Dreamers has become somewhat personal for me , because it has reminded me in a very strong way that I and my brother are first - generation Americans . We are the sons of an immigrant who came to this country at the age of 17 without a nickel in his pocket , young man who was a high school dropout who did not know one word English and had no particular trade .
A few years ago my brother and I and our family went to the small town that he came from and it just stunned me the kind of courage that he showed and millions of other people showed leaving their homeland to come to a very different world  ' without money , in many cases , without knowledge of the language .
Immigration is not just my story . It is the story of tens of millions of American families who came from every single part of this world .
My father immigrated to this country because the town he lived in in Poland was incredibly poor , there was no economic opportunity for him , people there struggled to put food on the table for their families . Hunger was a real issue in that area . My father came to this country to avoid the violence and bloodshed of World War I which had come close to his part of the world in a ferocious manner . He came to this country to escape the religious bigotry that existed then because he was Jewish .
My father lived in this country until his death in 1962 . He never made a lot of money . He was a paint salesman .
My father was not a political person but it turned out that , without talking much about it , he was the proudest American that you ever saw . And he was so proud of this country because he was deeply grateful that the United States had welcomed him in and allowed him opportunities that would have been absolutely unthinkable from where he came .
But the truth is that immigration is not just my story . It ' s not just the story of one young man coming from Poland who managed to see two of his kids go to college and one of his sons becoming a United States Senator . It ' s just my family ' s story . It is the story of my wife ' s family who came from Ireland . And it is the story of tens of millions of American families who came from every single part of this world .
In September of 2017 , President Trump precipitated the current crisis we are dealing with by revoking President Obama ' s DACA executive order . If President Trump believed that that executive order was unconstitutional and needed legislation , he could have come to Congress for a legislative solution without holding 800 , 000 young people hostage by revoking their DACA status . But President Trump chose not to do that . He chose to provoke the crisis that we are experiencing today . And that is a crisis we have to deal with , and here in the Senate we have to deal with it now .
And let us be very clear about the nature of this crisis . Some people say ,  ' Well , it ' s really not imminent , it ' s not something we have to worry about now .  ' Those people are wrong . As a result of Trump ' s decision , 122 people every day are now losing their legal status , and within a couple of years hundreds of thousands of these young people will have lost their legal protection and be subject to deportation .
The situation we are in right now as a result of Trump ' s action means that if we do not immediately protect the legal status of some 800 , 000 Dreamers  ' young people brought into this country at the age of 1 , or 3 , or 6 , young people who have known no home other than the United States  ' let us be clear that if we do not act and act soon these hundreds of thousands of young people could be subject to deportation .
And that means they could be arrested outside of the home where they have lived for virtually their entire life and suddenly be placed in a jail .
122 Dreamers lose their legal stats every day
They could be pulled out of a classroom where they are teaching , and there are some 20 , 000 DACA recipients who are now teaching in schools all over this country . And if we do not act and act now , there could be agents going into those schools and pulling those teachers right out and arresting them and subjecting them to deportation .
Insane as it may sound , I suppose that the 900 DACA recipients who now serve in the United States military today could find themselves in the position of being arrested and deported from the country that they are putting their lives on the line to defend . And some people say ,  ' Well , that ' s farfetched .  ' Well , I ' m not so sure . It could happen . How insane is that ? But that ' s where we are today and that ' s what could happen if we do not do the right thing and this week pass legislation here in the Senate to protect the Dreamers .
We have a moral responsibility to stand up for the Dreamers and their families , and to prevent what will be an indelible moral stain on our country if we fail to act . I do not want to see what the history books will be saying about this Congress if we allow 800 , 000 young people to be subjected to deportation , to live in incredible fear and anxiety .
But here is the very , very good news regarding the Dreamers . And it ' s actually news that I , a couple of years ago , would not have believed to be possible . And that is that the overwhelming majority of the American people  ' Democrats , Republicans , Independents  ' absolutely agree that we must provide legal protection for the Dreamers , and that we should provide them with a path towards citizenship . That is not Bernie Sanders talking . That is what the American people are saying in poll after poll after poll .
Just recently , a Jan . 20 CBS News poll found that nearly 9 in 10 Americans , 87 percent , favor allowing young immigrants who entered the U . S . illegally as children to remain in the United States . Eighty - seven percent . In Iowa , in Vermont , and in every state in this country , strong support for legal status for the Dreamers and a path toward citizenship .
On Jan . 11 a Quinnipiac poll found that 86 percent of American voters , including 76 percent of Republicans , say they want Dreamers to remain in the country .
On Feb . 5 , in a Monmouth poll , when asked about Dreamers ' status , nearly 3 out of 4 Americans support allowing these young people to automatically become U . S . citizens as long as they don ' t have a criminal record .
In other words the votes that are going to be cast hopefully be cast today , maybe tomorrow , are not profiles in courage ! They are not members of the Senate coming up and saying ,  ' Against all of the odds , I believe that I ' m going to vote for what is right !  ' This is what the overwhelming majority of the American people want . And maybe , just maybe , it might be appropriate to do what the American people want , rather than what a handful of xenophobic extremists want . Maybe we should listen to the American people . Democrats , Republicans and Independents who understand that it would be a morally atrocious thing to allow these young people to be deported .
Nearly 9 in 10 Americans favor allowing young immigrants who entered the U . S . illegally as children to remain in the United States
I think from a political perspective , about 80 , 85 , 90 percent of the American people support anything in a nation which is as divided as we are today  ' you can ' t get 80 percent of the American people to agree on what their favorite ice cream is but we got 80 percent of the American people who are saying , do not turn your backs on these young people who have lived in this country for virtually their entire lives .
We have got to act and act soon here in the Senate and there is good legislation that would allow us to do that . And in the House the good news is that there is bipartisan sponsored by Congressman Hurd and Congressman Aguilar , which will provide protection for Dreamers and a path toward citizenship .
My understanding that that bipartisan legislation now has majority support , and I urge in the strongest terms possible , that Speaker Ryan to allow democracy to prevail in the House . Allow the vote to take place if you have a majority of members in the House in a bipartisan way who support legislation , allow that legislation come to the floor . Let the members vote their will and if that occurs I think the Dreamers legislation will prevail .
Speaker Ryan : Let us go forward . Let us pass the Dreamers bill . Let us deal with border security
We all understand that there is a need for serious debate and legislation regarding comprehensive immigration reform . This is a difficult issue . An issue where there are differences of opinion , a whole lot of aspects to it . How do we provide a path toward citizenship for the 11 million people in this country who are currently undocumented but who are working hard , or raising their kids , who are obeying the law .
What should the overall immigration policy of our country be  ' how many people should be allowed into this country every year , where they come from  ' all of this is very , very important , and needs to be seriously debated . But that debate and that legislation is not going to be taking place in a two - day period . It ' s going to need some serious time , some hearings , some committee work , before the Congress is prepared to vote on comprehensive immigration reform . It will not and cannot happen today or tomorrow or this week .
Our focus now as a result of Trump ' s decision in September must be on protecting the Dreamers and their families , and on the issue of border security .
There will be important legislation coming to the floor of the Senate today or maybe tomorrow . And I would hope that we could do the right thing , do the moral thing and do something that history will look back on as very positive legislation . Let us go forward . Let us pass the Dreamers bill . Let us deal with border security . And then in the near future let us deal with comprehensive immigration reform .
Let me begin by thanking Westminster College , which year after year invites political leaders to discuss the important issue of foreign policy and America ' s role in the world . I am honored to be here today and I thank you very much for the invitation .
One of the reasons I accepted the invitation to speak here is that I strongly believe that not only do we need to begin a more vigorous debate about foreign policy , we also need to broaden our understanding of what foreign policy is .
So let me be clear : Foreign policy is directly related to military policy and has everything to do with almost seven thousand young Americans being killed in Iraq and Afghanistan , and tens of thousands coming home wounded in body and spirit from a war we should never have started . That ' s foreign policy . And foreign policy is about hundreds of thousands of people in Iraq and Afghanistan dying in that same war .
Foreign policy is about U . S . government budget priorities . At a time when we already spend more on defense than the next 12 nations combined , foreign policy is about authorizing a defense budget of some $ 700 billion , including a $ 50 billion increase passed just last week .
Meanwhile , at the exact same time as the President and many of my Republican colleagues want to substantially increase military spending , they want to throw 32 million Americans off of the health insurance they currently have because , supposedly , they are worried about the budget deficit . While greatly increasing military spending they also want to cut education , environmental protection and the needs of children and seniors .
Foreign policy , therefore , is remembering what Dwight D . Eisenhower said as he left office :  ' In the councils of government , we must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence , whether sought or unsought , by the military industrial complex . The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced power exists and will persist .  '
And he also reminded us that ; " Every gun that is made , every warship launched , every rocket fired signifies , in the final sense , a theft from those who hunger and are not fed , those who are cold and are not clothed . This world in arms is not spending money alone . It is spending the sweat of its laborers , the genius of its scientists , the hopes of its children . The cost of one modern heavy bomber is this : a modern brick school in more than 30 cities . It is two electric power plants , each serving a town of 60 , 000 population . It is two fine , fully equipped hospitals . It is some 50 miles of concrete highway '.  '
What Eisenhower said over 50 years ago is even more true today .
Foreign policy is about whether we continue to champion the values of freedom , democracy and justice , values which have been a beacon of hope for people throughout the world , or whether we support undemocratic , repressive regimes , which torture , jail and deny basic rights to their citizens .
What foreign policy also means is that if we are going to expound the virtues of democracy and justice abroad , and be taken seriously , we need to practice those values here at home . That means continuing the struggle to end racism , sexism , xenophobia and homophobia here in the United States and making it clear that when people in America march on our streets as neo - nazis or white supremacists , we have no ambiguity in condemning everything they stand for . There are no two sides on that issue .
Foreign policy is not just tied into military affairs , it is directly connected to economics . Foreign policy must take into account the outrageous income and wealth inequality that exists globally and in our own country . This planet will not be secure or peaceful when so few have so much , and so many have so little  ' and when we advance day after day into an oligarchic form of society where a small number of extraordinarily powerful special interests exert enormous influence over the economic and political life of the world .
There is no moral or economic justification for the six wealthiest people in the world having as much wealth as the bottom half of the world ' s population  ' 3 . 7 billion people . There is no justification for the incredible power and dominance that Wall Street , giant multi - national corporations and international financial institutions have over the affairs of sovereign countries throughout the world .
At a time when climate change is causing devastating problems here in America and around the world , foreign policy is about whether we work with the international community  ' with China , Russia , India and countries around the world - to transform our energy systems away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy . Sensible foreign policy understands that climate change is a real threat to every country on earth , that it is not a hoax , and that no country alone can effectively combat it . It is an issue for the entire international community , and an issue that the United States should be leading in , not ignoring or denying .
My point is that we need to look at foreign policy as more than just the crisis of the day . That is important , but we need a more expansive view .
Almost 70 years ago , former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill stood on this stage and gave an historic address , known as the  ' Iron Curtain ' speech , in which he framed a conception of world affairs that endured through the 20 th century , until the collapse of the Soviet Union . In that speech , he defined his strategic concept as quote  ' nothing less than the safety and welfare , the freedom and progress , of all the homes and families of all the men and women in all the lands .  '
 ' To give security to these countless homes ,  ' he said ,  ' they must be shielded from the two giant marauders , war and tyranny .  '
How do we meet that challenge today ? How do we fight for the  ' freedom and progress ' that Churchill talked about in the year 2017 ? At a time of exploding technology and wealth , how do we move away from a world of war , terrorism and massive levels of poverty into a world of peace and economic security for all . How do we move toward a global community in which people have the decent jobs , food , clean water , education , health care and housing they need ? These are , admittedly , not easy issues to deal with , but they are questions we cannot afford to ignore .
At the outset , I think it is important to recognize that the world of today is very , very different from the world of Winston Churchill of 1946 . Back then we faced a superpower adversary with a huge standing army , with an arsenal of nuclear weapons , with allies around the world , and with expansionist aims . Today the Soviet Union no longer exists .
Today we face threats of a different sort . We will never forget 9 / 11 . We are cognizant of the terrible attacks that have taken place in capitals all over the world . We are more than aware of the brutality of ISIS , Al Qaeda , and similar groups .
We also face the threat of these groups obtaining weapons of mass destruction , and preventing that must be a priority .
In recent years , we are increasingly confronted by the isolated dictatorship of North Korea , which is making rapid progress in nuclear weaponry and intercontinental ballistic missiles .
Yes , we face real and very serious threats to our security , which I will discuss , but they are very different than what we have seen in the past and our response must be equally different .
But before I talk about some of these other threats , let me say a few words about a very insidious challenge that undermines our ability to meet these other crises , and indeed could undermine our very way of life .
A great concern that I have today is that many in our country are losing faith in our common future and in our democratic values .
For far too many of our people , here in the United States and people all over the world , the promises of self - government -- of government by the people , for the people , and of the people -- have not been kept . And people are losing faith .
In the United States and other countries , a majority of people are working longer hours for lower wages than they used to . They see big money buying elections , and they see a political and economic elite growing wealthier , even as their own children ' s future grows dimmer .
So when we talk about foreign policy , and our belief in democracy , at the very top of our list of concerns is the need to revitalize American democracy to ensure that governmental decisions reflect the interests of a majority of our people , and not just the few  ' whether that few is Wall Street , the military industrial complex , or the fossil fuel industry . We cannot convincingly promote democracy abroad if we do not live it vigorously here at home .
Maybe it ' s because I come from the small state of Vermont , a state that prides itself on town meetings and grassroots democracy , that I strongly agree with Winston Churchill when he stated his belief that " democracy is the worst form of government , except for all those other forms .  '
In both Europe and the United States , the international order which the United States helped establish over the past 70 years , one which put great emphasis on democracy and human rights , and promoted greater trade and economic development , is under great strain . Many Europeans are questioning the value of the European Union . Many Americans are questioning the value of the United Nations , of the transatlantic alliance , and other multilateral organizations .
We also see a rise in authoritarianism and right wing extremism  ' both domestic and foreign -- which further weakens this order by exploiting and amplifying resentments , stoking intolerance and fanning ethnic and racial hatreds among those in our societies who are struggling .
We saw this anti - democratic effort take place in the 2016 election right here in the United States , where we now know that the Russian government was engaged in a massive effort to undermine one of our greatest strengths : The integrity of our elections , and our faith in our own democracy .
I found it incredible , by the way , that when the President of the United States spoke before the United Nations on Monday , he did not even mention that outrage .
Well , I will . Today I say to Mr . Putin : we will not allow you to undermine American democracy or democracies around the world . In fact , our goal is to not only strengthen American democracy , but to work in solidarity with supporters of democracy around the globe , including in Russia . In the struggle of democracy versus authoritarianism , we intend to win .
When we talk about foreign policy it is clear that there are some who believe that the United States would be best served by withdrawing from the global community . I disagree . As the wealthiest and most powerful nation on earth , we have got to help lead the struggle to defend and expand a rules - based international order in which law , not might , makes right .
We must offer people a vision that one day , maybe not in our lifetimes , but one day in the future human beings on this planet will live in a world where international conflicts will be resolved peacefully , not by mass murder .
How tragic it is that today , while hundreds of millions of people live in abysmal poverty , the arms merchants of the world grow increasingly rich as governments spend trillions of dollars on weapons of destruction .
I am not na ' ve or unmindful of history . Many of the conflicts that plague our world are longstanding and complex . But we must never lose our vision of a world in which , to quote the Prophet Isaiah ,  ' they shall beat their swords into plowshares , and their spears into pruning hooks : nation shall not lift up sword against nation , neither shall they learn war any more .  '
One of the most important organizations for promoting a vision of a different world is the United Nations . Former First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt , who helped create the UN , called it  ' our greatest hope for future peace . Alone we cannot keep the peace of the world , but in cooperation with others we have to achieve this much longed - for security .  '
It has become fashionable to bash the UN . And yes , the UN needs to be reformed . It can be ineffective , bureaucratic , too slow or unwilling to act , even in the face of massive atrocities , as we are seeing in Syria right now . But to see only its weaknesses is to overlook the enormously important work the UN does in promoting global health , aiding refugees , monitoring elections , and doing international peacekeeping missions , among other things . All of these activities contribute to reduced conflict , to wars that don ' t have to be ended because they never start .
At the end of the day , it is obvious that it makes far more sense to have a forum in which countries can debate their concerns , work out compromises and agreements . Dialogue and debate are far preferable to bombs , poison gas , and war .
Dialogue however cannot only be take place between foreign ministers or diplomats at the United Nations . It should be taking place between people throughout the world at the grassroots level .
I was mayor of the city of Burlington , Vermont , in the 1980  ' s , when the Soviet Union was our enemy . We established a sister city program with the Russian city of Yaroslavl , a program which still exists today . I will never forget seeing Russian boys and girls visiting Vermont , getting to know American kids , and becoming good friends . Hatred and wars are often based on fear and ignorance . The way to defeat this ignorance and diminish this fear is through meeting with others and understanding the way they see the world . Good foreign policy means building people to people relationships .
We should welcome young people from all over the world and all walks of life to spend time with our kids in American classrooms , while our kids , from all income levels , do the same abroad .
Some in Washington continue to argue that  ' benevolent global hegemony ' should be the goal of our foreign policy , that the US , by virtue of its extraordinary military power , should stand astride the world and reshape it to its liking . I would argue that the events of the past two decades  ' particularly the disastrous Iraq war and the instability and destruction it has brought to the region  ' have utterly discredited that vision .
The goal is not for the United States to dominate the world . Nor , on the other hand , is our goal to withdraw from the international community and shirk our responsibilities under the banner of  ' America First .  ' Our goal should be global engagement based on partnership , rather than dominance . This is better for our security , better for global stability , and better for facilitating the international cooperation necessary to meet shared challenges .
Here ' s a truth that you don ' t often hear about too often in the newspapers , on the television , or in the halls of Congress . But it ' s a truth we must face . Far too often , American intervention and the use of American military power has produced unintended consequences which have caused incalculable harm . Yes , it is reasonably easy to engineer the overthrow of a government . It is far harder , however , to know the long term impact that that action will have . Let me give you some examples :
In 1953 the United States , on behalf of Western oil interests , supported the overthrow of Iran ' s elected Prime Minister Mohammed Mossadegh , and the re - installation of the Shah of Iran , who led a corrupt , brutal and unpopular government . In 1979 , the Shah was overthrown by revolutionaries led by Ayatollah Khomeini , and the Islamic Republic of Iran was created . What would Iran look like today if their democratic government had not been overthrown ? What impact did that American - led coup have on the entire region ? What consequences are we still living with today ?
In 1973 , the United States supported the coup against the democratically elected president of Chile Salvador Allende which was led by General Augusto Pinochet . The result was almost 20 years of authoritarian military rule and the disappearance and torture of thousands of Chileans  ' and the intensification of anti - Americanism in Latin America .
Elsewhere in Latin America , the logic of the Cold War led the United States to support murderous regimes in El Salvador and Guatemala , which resulted in brutal and long - lasting civil wars that killed hundreds of thousands of innocent men , women and children .
In Vietnam , based on a discredited  ' domino theory ,  ' the United States replaced the French in intervening in a civil war , which resulted in the deaths of millions of Vietnamese in support of a corrupt , repressive South Vietnamese government . We must never forget that over 58 , 000 thousand Americans also died in that war .
More recently , in Iraq , based on a similarly mistaken analysis of the threat posed by Saddam Hussein ' s regime , the United States invaded and occupied a country in the heart of the Middle East . In doing so , we upended the regional order of the Middle East and unleashed forces across the region and the world that we ' ll be dealing with for decades to come .
These are just a few examples of American foreign policy and interventionism which proved to be counter - productive .
Now let me give you an example of an incredibly bold and ambitious American initiative which proved to be enormously successful in which not one bullet was fired  ' something that we must learn from .
Shortly after Churchill was right here in Westminster College , the United States developed an extremely radical foreign policy initiative called the Marshall Plan .
Think about it for a moment : historically , when countries won terrible wars , they exacted retribution on the vanquished . But in 1948 , the United States government did something absolutely unprecedented .
After losing hundreds of thousands of soldiers in the most brutal war in history to defeat the barbarity of Nazi Germany and Japanese imperialism , the government of the United States decided not to punish and humiliate the losers . Rather , we helped rebuild their economies , spending the equivalent of $ 130 billion just to reconstruct Western Europe after World War II . We also provided them support to reconstruct democratic societies .
That program was an amazing success . Today Germany , the country of the Holocaust , the country of Hitler ' s dictatorship , is now a strong democracy and the economic engine of Europe . Despite centuries of hostility , there has not been a major European war since World War II . That is an extraordinary foreign policy success that we have every right to be very proud of .
Unfortunately , today we still have examples of the United States supporting policies that I believe will come back to haunt us . One is the ongoing Saudi war in Yemen .
While we rightly condemn Russian and Iranian support for Bashar al - Assad ' s slaughter in Syria , the United States continues to support Saudi Arabia ' s destructive intervention in Yemen , which has killed many thousands of civilians and created a humanitarian crisis in one of the region ' s poorest countries . Such policies dramatically undermine America ' s ability to advance a human rights agenda around the world , and empowers authoritarian leaders who insist that our support for those rights and values is not serious .
Let me say a word about some of the shared global challenges that we face today .
First , I would mention climate change . Friends , it is time to get serious on this : Climate change is real and must be addressed with the full weight of American power , attention and resources .
The scientific community is virtually unanimous in telling us that climate change is real , climate change is caused by human activity , and climate change is already causing devastating harm throughout the world . Further , what the scientists tell us is that if we do not act boldly to address the climate crisis , this planet will see more drought , more floods  ' the recent devastation by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma are good examples  ' more extreme weather disturbances , more acidification of the ocean , more rising sea levels , and , as a result of mass migrations , there will be more threats to global stability and security .
President Trump ' s decision to withdraw from the Paris agreement was not only incredibly foolish and short - sighted , but it will also end up hurting the American economy .
The threat of climate change is a very clear example of where American leadership can make a difference . Europe can ' t do it alone , China can ' t do it alone , and the United States can ' t do it alone . This is a crisis that calls out for strong international cooperation if we are to leave our children and grandchildren a planet that is healthy and habitable . American leadership  ' the economic and scientific advantages and incentives that only America can offer  ' is hugely important for facilitating this cooperation .
Another challenge that we and the entire world face is growing wealth and income inequality , and the movement toward international oligarchy  ' a system in which a small number of billionaires and corporate interests have control over our economic life , our political life , and our media .
This movement toward oligarchy is not just an American issue . It is an international issue . Globally , the top 1 percent now owns more wealth than the bottom 99 % of the world ' s population .
In other words , while the very , very rich become much richer , thousands of children die every week in poor countries around the world from easily prevented diseases , and hundreds of millions live in incredible squalor .
Inequality , corruption , oligarchy and authoritarianism are inseparable . They must be understood as part of the same system , and fought in the same way . Around the world we have witnessed the rise of demagogues who once in power use their positions to loot the state of its resources . These kleptocrats , like Putin in Russia , use divisiveness and abuse as a tool for enriching themselves and those loyal to them .
But economic inequality is not the only form of inequality that we must face . As we seek to renew America ' s commitment to promote human rights and human dignity around the world we must be a living example here at home . We must reject the divisive attacks based on a person ' s religion , race , gender , sexual orientation or identity , country of origin , or class . And when we see demonstrations of neo naziism and white supremacism as we recently did in Charlottesville , Virginia , we must be unequivocal in our condemnation , as our president shamefully was not .
And as we saw here so clearly in St . Louis in the past week we need serious reforms in policing and the criminal justice system so that the life of every person is equally valued and protected . We cannot speak with the moral authority the world needs if we do not struggle to achieve the ideal we are holding out for others .
One of the places we have fallen short in upholding these ideas is in the war on terrorism . Here I want to be clear : terrorism is a very real threat , as we learned so tragically on September 11 , 2001 , and many other countries knew already too well .
But , I also want to be clear about something else : As an organizing framework , the Global War on Terror has been a disaster for the American people and for American leadership . Orienting US national security strategy around terrorism essentially allowed a few thousand violent extremists to dictate policy for the most powerful nation on earth . It responds to terrorists by giving them exactly what they want .
In addition to draining our resources and distorting our vision , the war on terror has caused us to undermine our own moral standards regarding torture , indefinite detention , and the use of force around the world , using drone strikes and other airstrikes that often result in high civilian casualties .
A heavy - handed military approach , with little transparency or accountability , doesn ' t enhance our security . It makes the problem worse .
We must rethink the old Washington mindset that judges  ' seriousness ' according to the willingness to use force . One of the key misapprehensions of this mindset is the idea that military force is decisive in a way that diplomacy is not .
Yes , military force is sometimes necessary , but always  ' always  ' as the last resort . And blustery threats of force , while they might make a few columnists happy , can often signal weakness as much as strength , diminishing US deterrence , credibility and security in the process .
To illustrate this , I would contrast two recent US foreign policy initiatives : The Iraq war and the Iran nuclear agreement .
Today it is now broadly acknowledged that the war in Iraq , which I opposed , was a foreign policy blunder of enormous magnitude .
In addition to the many thousands killed , it created a cascade of instability around the region that we are still dealing with today in Syria and elsewhere , and will be for many years to come . Indeed , had it not been for the Iraq War , ISIS would almost certainly not exist .
The Iraq war , as I said before , had unintended consequences . It was intended as a demonstration of the extent of American power . It ended up demonstrating only its limits .
In contrast , the Iran nuclear deal advanced the security of the US and its partners , and it did this at a cost of no blood and zero treasure .
For many years , leaders across the world had become increasingly concerned about the possibility of an Iranian nuclear weapon . What the Obama administration and our European allies were able to do was to get an agreement that froze and dismantled large parts of that nuclear program , put it under the most intensive inspections regime in history , and removed the prospect of an Iranian nuclear weapon from the list of global threats .
That is real leadership . That is real power .
Just yesterday , the top general of US Strategic Command , General John Hyden , said  ' The facts are that Iran is operating under the agreements the we signed up for .  ' We now have a four - year record of Iran ' s compliance , going back to the 2013 interim deal .
I call on my colleagues in the Congress , and all Americans : We must protect this deal . President Trump has signaled his intention to walk away from it , as he did the Paris agreement , regardless of the evidence that it is working . That would be a mistake .
Not only would this potentially free Iran from the limits placed on its nuclear program , it would irreparably harm America ' s ability to negotiate future nonproliferation agreements . Why would any country in the world sign such an agreement with the United States if they knew that a reckless president and an irresponsible Congress might simply discard that agreement a few years later ?
If we are genuinely concerned with Iran ' s behavior in the region , as I am , the worst possible thing we could do is break the nuclear deal . It would make all of these other problems harder .
Another problem it would make harder is that of North Korea .
Let ' s understand : North Korea is ruled by one of the worst regimes in the world . For many years , its leadership has sacrificed the well - being of its own people in order to develop nuclear weapons and missile programs in order to protect the Kim family ' s regime . Their continued development of nuclear weapons and missile capability is a growing threat to the US and our allies . Despite past efforts they have repeatedly shown their determination to move forward with these programs in defiance of virtually unanimous international opposition and condemnation .
As we saw with the 2015 nuclear agreement with Iran , real US leadership is shown by our ability to develop consensus around shared problems , and mobilize that consensus toward a solution . That is the model we should be pursuing with North Korea .
As we did with Iran , if North Korea continues to refuse to negotiate seriously , we should look for ways to tighten international sanctions . This will involve working closely with other countries , particularly China , on whom North Korea relies for some 80 percent of its trade . But we should also continue to make clear that this is a shared problem , not to be solved by any one country alone but by the international community working together .
An approach that really uses all the tools of our power  ' political , economic , civil society  ' to encourage other states to adopt more inclusive governance will ultimately make us safer .
Development aid is not charity , it advances our national security . It ' s worth noting that the U . S . military is a stalwart supporter of non - defense diplomacy and development aid .
Starving diplomacy and aid now will result in greater defense needs later on .
US foreign aid should be accompanied by stronger emphasis on helping people gain their political and civil rights to hold oppressive governments accountable to the people . Ultimately , governments that are accountable to the needs of their people will make more dependable partners .
Here is the bottom line : In my view , the United States must seek partnerships not just between governments , but between peoples . A sensible and effective foreign policy recognizes that our safety and welfare is bound up with the safety and welfare of others around the world , with  ' all the homes and families of all the men and women in all the lands ,  ' as Churchill said right here , 70 years ago .
In my view , every person on this planet shares a common humanity . We all want our children to grow up healthy , to have a good education , have decent jobs , drink clean water and breathe clean air , and to live in peace . That ' s what being human is about .
Our job is to build on that common humanity and do everything that we can to oppose all of the forces , whether unaccountable government power or unaccountable corporate power , who try to divide us up and set us against each other . As Eleanor Roosevelt reminded us ,  ' The world of the future is in our making . Tomorrow is now .  '
My friends , let us go forward and build that tomorrow
work which in fact has gone on now for several years today is an extremely important day today we in the Senate have the opportunity to take a major step forward in ending the horrific war in Yemen and alleviating the terrible terrible suffering being experienced by the people in one of the poorest countries on earth and today equally important we can finally begin the process of reasserting Congress ' s responsibility
over war making as every schoolchild should know article 1 of the Constitution clearly states that it is Congress not the president that has the power to declare war in their great wisdom the framers of our constitution the founders of this country gave that enormous Lee important responsibilities to Congress because the members of the House and the Senate are closer and more accountable to the people of this country tragically
however over many years Congress has abdicated that responsibility through Democratic presidents and Republican presidents today we begin the process of reclaiming our constitutional authority by ending u . s . involvement in a war that has not been authorized by Congress and is clearly unconstitutional last assemble this body made history for the first time since the war powers resolution was passed in 1973 a majority of United States senators 56 of us in a
bipartisan manner used those powers from the War Powers Act to end u . s . involvement in a war today we consider that exact same resolution once again in the new Congress this time however unlike last session this resolution will be brought to the House floor and I strongly believe will be passed let me say a brief word about the war in Yemen in March of 2015 under the leadership of Mohammed bin Salman then Saudi defense minister and now the
Crown Prince a saudi - led coalition intervened in Yemen ' s ongoing civil war as a result of that intervention Yemen is now experiencing the worst humanitarian disaster on the planet according to the United Nations Yemen is at risk of the most severe famine in 100 years with some 14 million people facing the possibility of starvation in one of the poorest countries on earth as a result of this war according to the Save the Children organization some 85 , 000
children in Yemen have already starved to death over the last several years an unimaginable number unimaginable suffering and destruction and if this war continues what the experts tell us is that millions more will also face famine and starvation further Yemen is currently experiencing the worst cholera outbreak in the world as many as 10 , 000 new cases each week according to the World Health Organization this is a disease spread by
infected water that causes severe diarrhea and dehydration and will only accelerate the death rate the cholera outbreak has occurred because Saudi bombs have destroyed Yemen ' s water infrastructure and people are no longer able to access clean drinking water the fact is that the United States with little media attention has been Saudi Arabia ' s partner in this horrific war we have
been providing the bombs that the saudi - led coalition is using we have been refueling their planes before they drop those bombs and we have been assisting with intelligence in too many cases our weapons are being used to kill civilians in August it was an american - made bomb that obliterated a school bus full of young boys killing dozens and wounding many more a CNN report found evidence that American what weapons have been used in a string of
such deadly attacks on civilians since the war began this past weekend this past weekend at least 20 women and a child were killed in a saudi - led air strike on Yemen ' s northwestern province of haja as they huddled in a house to avoid nearby clashes as is so often the case in war the innocent the women and the children paid the price late last year I met with several brave Yemeni human rights activists they had come to Congress to urge us to put a stop to
this war and they told me clearly when Yemenis see made in America on the bombs that are killing them it tells them that the United States is responsible for this war that is the sad truth mr . president the bottom line is that the United States should not be supporting a catastrophic war led by a despotic regime with a dangerous and irresponsible foreign policy some have suggested that Congress that Congress
moving to withdraw support from this war would undermine the United Nations efforts to reach a peace agreement but the opposite is true it is the promise of unconditional US support for the Saudis that undermines those efforts and we have evidence for this late the sent last assembled as we were preparing to vote on this same resolution we receive news that UN Special Envoy Martin Griffiths reached a breakthrough agreement for a ceasefire in the port
city of add item and that ceasefire which is being maintained today is enabling food and increased humanitarian aid into the country I have spoken to people at the highest level of those negotiations who have made it clear that our actions here in the Senate played a significant role in pushing Saudi Arabia toward an agreement that pressure must continue and the resolution that I hope we pass today will do just that so our effort on this issue has clearly made a
positive impact and I thank all of the co - sponsors of this resolution for their efforts and all of the civil society organizations progressive and conservative organizations who have worked so hard to raise awareness of this conflict and the constitutional implications the president above and beyond the humanitarian crisis in Yemen this wall has been harmful to our national security and the security of the region the administration defends
our engagement in Yemen by overstating Iranian support for the Houthi rebels let me be clear Iran ' s support for the Houthis is of concei rias concern for all of us but the truth is that support there is far less significant than the administration claims and the fact is that the relationship between Iran and the Houthis has only been strengthened by this war the war is creating the very problem the administration claims to want to solve this war is also
undermining the broader effort against violent extremists a 2016 State Department report found that the conflict had helped al Qaeda and the Islamic states Yemen branch quote deepen their inroads across much of the country and the court as the head of the International Rescue Committee former British Foreign Minister David Milliband said in a recent interview quote the winners are the extremist groups like Al Qaeda and Isis end of quote
late last year The Wall Street Journal reported and I quote nearly two years after being driven from its stronghold in Yemen one of al - qaeda ' s most dangerous franchises has entrenched himself in the country ' s hinterlands as a devastating war creates the conditions for its comeback end of quote and here is something that should deeply concern us all at a time when we are spending billions to fight terrorism all over the world
a February CNN report revealed that Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners have transferred american - made weapons to Al qaeda - linked fighters in Yemen does anyone here think it makes sense that US weapons should be given to groups who have declared war against the United States so this war is was a humanitarian and a strategic disaster and let us also not forget that this war is being led by a despotic undemocratic regime in Saudi
Arabia the United States of America the most powerful country on Earth should not be led into a regional war by our client states who are trying to serve their own narrow and selfish interest it should not be Saudi Arabia that is developing and implementing American foreign and military policy Saudi Arabia is a monarchy controlled by one of the wealthiest families in the world the Saud family and a 2017 report by the Cato Institute Saudi Arabia was ranked a
hundred and forty nine out of a hundred and fifty nine countries for freedom and human rights is this really the kind of country whose foreign policy we should be supporting with US taxpayer dollars for decades the Saudis have funded schools mosques and preachers who promote an extreme form of Islam Don is Wahhabism in Saudi Arabia today women are treated as third - class citizens women still need the permission of a male guardian to go to school or get a
job they have to follow a strict dress code and can be stoned to death for adultery or flawed for spending time in the company of a man who was not their relative last year saw the Saudi activists Lou Jane I ' ll have well a leader in the fight for women ' s rights was kidnapped from Abu Dhabi and forced to return to the country she is currently imprisoned along with many other human rights activists Human
Rights Watch reported and imprisoned women activists have been subjected to torture including electric shocks and other forms of physical and sexual assault the people of the entire world received a very clear understanding about the nature of the Saudi regime with the murder of Jamal khashoggi in the Saudi consulate in Turkey all of the evidence suggests that the Saudi Crown Prince was directly responsible for that murder is that really the kind of regime
whose leads we in the United States should be following mr . president I believe that the US Congress has become far too comfortable with military interventions all over the world we have now been in Afghanistan for nearly 18 years longest war in American history we also have troops in many other countries around the world the time is long overdue for Congress to reassert its constitutional role in determining when and where our country goes to war this
resolution provides that opportunity and I hope this body will do exactly as it did in December and in a bipartisan manner pass this resolution the humanitarian catastrophe has only gotten worse in Yemen and our intervention there is every bit as unconstitutional as it was when we passed this resolution in December let us bring this catastrophic war in Yemen to an end let us focus our efforts on the diplomatic on a diplomatic
resolution to end that war and let us provide the humanitarian aid needed to protect the hungry and the sick in Yemen and let us today in an historic vote 45 years after the passage of the War Powers Act let us today reassert Congress ' s constitutional responsibility in terms of war making Thank You mr . president and I yield the floor mr . president the senator from Connecticut thank you very much mr . president I am very pleased
once again to join my friend and senator from Vermont on the floor to press this body to take seriously its constitutional responsibility and its responsibility to assure that the United States doesn ' t enter into hostilities abroad other than those situations that are vitally necessary to protect our national security interests and I am so proud to have
hi I ' m Bernie Sanders I ' m running for president and I ' m asking you today to be part of an unprecedented grassroots campaign of 1 million active volunteers in every state in our country our campaign is not only about the feeding Donald Trump the most dangerous president in modern American history it is not only about winning the Democratic nomination in the general election our campaign is about transforming our country and creating a government based
on the principles of economic social racial and environmental justice our campaign is about taking on the powerful special interest that dominate our economic and political life I ' m talking about Wall Street the health insurance companies the drug companies the fossil fuel industry the military industrial complex the private prison industry and the large multinational corporations that exert such an enormous influence over our lives our campaign is about
redoubling our efforts to end racism sexism homophobia religious bigotry and all forms of discrimination our campaign is about creating a vibrant democracy with the highest voter turnout of any major country on earth while we end voter suppression citizens united and outrageous levels of gerrymandering our campaign is about creating a government and economy that works for the many not just the few we are the wealthiest nation in the history of the world we
should not have a grotesque level of wealth inequality in which three billionaires now own more wealth than the bottom half of the country we should not have 30 million Americans without any health insurance even more who are underinsured and a nation in which life expectancy is actually in decline we should not have an economy in which tens of millions of workers earn starvation wages and half of older workers have savings as they face retirement we
should not have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country on earth and a dysfunctional childcare system which is unfair to both working parents and their children we should not have a regressive tax system in which large profitable corporations like Amazon pay nothing in federal income taxes make no mistake about it the powerful special interests in this country have unbelievable power and they want to maintain the status quo they
have unlimited amounts of money to spend on campaigns and lobbying and have huge influence over the media and political parties the only way we will win this election and create a government and an economy that works for all is with a grassroots movement the likes of which has never been seen in American history they may have the money and the power we have the people that is why we need 1 million Americans who will commit themselves to this campaign you know as
well as I do that we are living in a pivotal and dangerous moment in American history we are running against a president who is a pathological liar a fraud a racist a sexist a xenophobe and someone who was undermining American democracy as he leads us in an authoritarian direction I am running for president because now more than ever we need leadership that brings us together not divides us up women and men black white Latino Native American Asian
American gay and straight young and old native - born and immigrant now is the time for us to stand together I ' m running for president because we need leadership that will fight for working families and the shrinking middle class not just the 1 % we need a president in wonder stands the we can create millions of good - paying jobs rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure and constructing the affordable housing we desperately need I
am running for president because we need trade policies that reflect the interests of workers and not multinational corporations we need to raise the minimum wage to a living wage provide pay equity for women and guarantee all workers paid family and medical leave I ' m running for president because we need to understand that artificial intelligence and robotics must benefit the needs of workers not just corporate America and those who own
that technology I ' m running for president because a great nation is judged not by how many billionaires and nuclear weapons it has but by how it treats the most vulnerable the elderly the children our veterans the sick in the poor I ' m running for president because we need to make policy decisions based on science not politics we need a president who understands that climate change is real is an existential threat to our country
and the entire planet and that we can generate massive job creation by transforming our energy system away from fossil fuel and into energy efficiency and sustainable energy I ' m running for president because the time is long overdue for the United States to join every other major country on Earth and guarantee health care to all people as a right not a privilege through a Medicare for All single - payer program I am running for president because we need to
take on the outrageous level of greed of the pharmaceutical industry and lower prescription drug prices in this country I ' m running for president because we need to have the best educated workforce in the world it is totally counterproductive for our future that millions of Americans are carrying outrageous levels of student debt while men others cannot afford the high cost of higher education that is why we need to
make public colleges and universities tuition - free and lower student debt I am running for president because we need real criminal justice reform we need to invest in jobs and education for our kids not more jails and incarceration we need to end the destructive war on drugs private prisons and cash bail and bring about nature Police Department reform I ' m running for president because we need to end the demonization of undocumented immigrants in this country
and move the comprehensive immigration reform we need to provide immediate legal status for the young people eligible for the daca program and develop a humane policy for those at the border who seek asylum I ' m running for president because we must end the epidemic of gun violence in this country we need to take on the NRA expand background checks and the gun show loophole and ban the sale and distribution of assault weapons I am
running for president because we need a foreign policy which focuses on democracy human rights diplomacy and world peace the United States must leave the world in improving international cooperation in the fight against climate change militarism authoritarianism and global wealth inequality that is why we need 1 million people to join our campaign and help lead the movement that can accomplish all of these goals needless
to say there is a lot of frightening and bad work the bad news in this world now let me give you some very good news that we should all be very proud of three years ago during our 2016 campaign when we brought forth our progressive agenda we were told that our ideas were radical and were extreme we were told that medicare - for - all a $ 15 an hour minimum wage free tuition at public colleges and universities aggressively combating
climate change demanding that the wealthy stop paying their fair share of taxes we were told that all of these concepts were ideas that the American people would never accept well three years have come and gone and as a result of millions of Americans standing up and fighting back all of these policies and more are now supported by a majority of Americans together you and I and our 2016 campaign began the political revolution now it is time to complete
that revolution and implement the vision that we fought for so here is my question for you will you stand with me as part of a million - person grassroots movement which can not only win the Democratic nomination not only win the general election but most importantly help transform this country so that finally we have a government that works for all of us and not just the few together we can create a nation that leads the world in the struggle for
peace and for economic racial social and environmental justice and together we can defeat Donald Trump and repair the damage he has done to our country brothers and sisters if we stand together there is no limit to what we can accomplish I hope you ' ll join me thank you very much
it is an honor and a pleasure to be here with you and I will tell you why because you guys are doing exactly what has to be done in this country you are organizing at the grassroots level you are standing up and fighting back against Trump ' s racism and sexism and homophobia and religious bigotry you are fighting for a government that represents all of us and not just the 1 % thank you very much for what you ' re doing the crisis that we are facing
today is not complicated it has everything to do that we have a government that ignores the needs of working people ignores the needs of minorities ignores the needs of women yet works over time for wealthy campaign contributors and the 1 % and what our job is is not radical it ' s what the American people want they want a government which represents all of us not just the people on top so thank you for helping to lead that fight now in the midst of a lot of
bad news that comes from the White House I want to give you some good news and that is we have come a long way over the last four years and you guys are part of the progress that we have made let me give you let me give you some examples four years ago when I ran for president and some of us were talking about raising the minimum wage to $ 15 an hour we were told we were crazy it was a radical idea remember that imagine doubling the federal minimum wage well
guess what ' s happened six states have already voted to raise that minimum wage and a few weeks ago the US House of Representatives Committee on education and labor voted out of committee a bill to raise the minimum wage to 15 bucks an hour few years ago we were saying you know we ' re living in a competitive global economy and if this economy is going to be successful for working people everybody in this country regardless of income has the right to
get a higher education people said oh my god that ' s just too radical can ' t be done in the last four years all over this country cities and states are moving to making public colleges and universities tuition - free and two substantially and this is what our job is we are going to substantially if not completely end the outrage of millions of Americans dealing with student debt in this country
and four years ago we had a real you really want to hear really radical and crazy idea I mean so radical are you hesitate to bring it forward imagine you know the establishment when crazy media went nuts killers imagine the United States joining the rest of the industrialized world and guarantee health care to all people as a right not a privilege well we ' ve come a really long way it was a radical idea four
years ago poll after poll shows a majority of Americans support that idea as well alright four years ago we were talking about the ugliness vulgarity of the United States having more people in jail than any other country on earth disproportionately African American Latino and Native American and we said that maybe instead of investing in jails and incarceration we should invest in our young people in jobs and education well we are beginning to see beginning
we had a long way to go all over the country good people standing up and saying our goal is not to have more people in jail it is to have fewer people in jail and when we talk about criminal justice reform we have to talk about ending the war on drugs four years ago it was a radical idea to say maybe we should legalize or decriminalize the possession of marijuana well four years have come and gone and guess what state after state including the state of
Vermont DC have done just that four years ago there weren ' t many voices out there they were talking about a corrupt political system in which billionaires are able to buy elections and that maybe we should move to overturn citizens united and move to public funding of Elections four years ago there was not a whole lot of discussion about the grotesque level of income and wealth inequality in America where three families today bleep listen
to this three families own more wealth than the bottom half of the American people and at a time when millions of families people are working two or three jobs 46 percent of all new income is going to the top one percent so what we said and I think more and more people are saying it now maybe instead of giving tax breaks to billionaires and large private corporations maybe we should demand that the wealthy and profitable corporations start paying
their fair share of taxes the mantra of our campaign is not me but us and the reason for that is not just that it sounds like a good bumper sticker the reason for that for that is the simple that ' s the simple truth no president no matter how well - intentioned or honest he or she may be can do it alone so I ' m going to tell you what very few people will tell you is that the power of Wall Street the power of the fossil
fuel industry who lies to us every day about climate change the power of the insurance companies of the pharmaceutical companies of the military - industrial complex that power is so great that the only way we defeated is when millions of people black and white and Latino Native American Asian American gay and straight immigrant and native one unless we come together and say to trump that those days of hatred and
division divisiveness is over we ' re going to bring our country together to fight for an agenda that works for all of us and not just the people on top thank you very much
thank you for a wonderful rendition of the star - spangled banner let me thank Scott Shaw who was standing up not just for the workers in Erie Pennsylvania against corporate greed but for every worker in America let me play representative Terry
Alexander of South Carolina and curry is right this is going to be my very good friend need a turn Leena has been with me all across this country Nina has helped develop one of the great grassroots organizations in this country our revolution and Nina is mobilizing people from one end of this country thank you very much all over this
country I ' m going to say a few words about today and one more people on the same and there are my wife is my family have a green and beautiful seven children thank you coming out today forgiving us
for my thank you and thank you all for being part of a political revolution it ' s not Burmese you to thank all of you for being part of a campaign which is not only going to win the Democratic nomination which is not only going to defeat Donald Trump
but with your help we are going to transform this country economy and economy which works for all not just the 1 % today and our very first rally I want to welcome you to a campaign which says loudly and clearly that the underlying principles of our government will not be greed hatred and lies it will not be racism sexism xenophobia homophobia and religious bigotry it will not be tax breaks for billionaires
to throw millions off the healthcare that they currently this campaign is going to end wall the principles of our government will be based on justice on economic justice environmental justice today I welcome you to a campaign which tells the powerful special interests who control
so much of our economic and political life that we will no longer tolerate the greed of Corporate America and the billionaire class which has resulted in this country having more income and wealth inequality than any major country on earth and allow three families in this country to own more wealth than the bottom half
while these families become richer over twenty percent of our children live in poverty veterans sleep out on the streets and senior citizens cannot afford their prescription drugs we ' re here to tell the 1 % that we will no longer tolerate 46 percent of all new income going to the very richest people in this country while millions of Americans are out working two or three jobs just to survive and pay the bills
today we watch our fight for a political revolution the health insurance companies where they use my kid is going to join every country
charge the American people the highest prices in the world for the medicine they desperately need your greed is gonna hang and we ' re gonna log the cost of prescription drugs
today to the fast food industry and top of the wage employers stop paying your workers starvation wages yes we are going to raise the minimum wage in this country to at least today we say to the American people that we will rebuild our crumbling infrastructure water plants Rapids and when we do that we ' re going to create up to 13 million decent paying jobs
in our country that you and your children deserve quality affordable childcare and today here at Brooklyn College we say to young people all over this country we want you to get the best education you can regardless of your income good jobs require a good education and that is why we are going to make
public colleges and universities tuition - free we are going to substantially lower the outrageous level of student one side the best educated workforce in the world and we are going to make that happen again and today we say to our senior citizens in Vermont in Brooklyn
in California we know you cannot survive with dignity on $ 14 , 000 the Social Security we ' ve got some bad news Donald Trumpkin the fossil fuel industry the climate change is normal to our country and the entire we ' re going to
create all of us and every person in this country has a moral responsibility to make certain that the planet we leave our kids and our grandchildren is a planet that is healthy and today we say to the prison industrial complex then we you are going to achieve real
criminal justice report the international of the United States having more people in jail than any other country on earth in jails and incarceration we are going to invest in jobs and education No no keeping people in jail because they
include war to a boy when we talk about criminal justice reform we are going to take the shitty system in which tens of thousands of Americans every year get criminal records for possessing marijuana economy in 2008
no they didn ' t go to jail they got a trillion dollar bailout today we say to the American people that instead of demonizing the undocumented immigrants in this country we have got a pass concrete toward citizenship we ' re gonna provide legal status got a 1 . 8 million young people water policy for those who seek asylum the United States will no longer
snatch babies from the arms of their mothers today we say 1 % and the large profitable corporations in a minute America listen up because this surprise to you we say to the 1 % in large corporations that under a Bernie Sanders administration you ' re not gonna be getting more tax breaks the country same you move you want to distort pain
we will no longer accept the absurd situation where watch both be billion - dollar corporations like Amazon Netflix and General Motors pay nothing in federal income taxes while these corporations and the billionaires to stash their money in the Cayman Islands yes the wealthy and multinational corporations will start paying their fair share of taxes we ' re gonna
austerity for working families break today we say to the military - industrial complex we continue to spend seven hundred billion dollars a year on the military war then the top ten nations combined and we ' re going to invest in our crumbling infrastructure no more major major investments in never ending Wars
we are going to win this election not because we have a super PAC funded by billionaires we ' re gonna win this election because we are putting together the strongest grassroots campaign in the history wants to divide us based on the color of our skin
based on where we were based on our agenda based on our religion or sexual orientation what we are about is doing exactly the opposite we ' re gonna bring our people together
black and white Latino asian - american Native American gay straight we transform this country if I might take a moment as I return here to the area that I was bought let me say a few personal words as we watch this campaign for president you deserve to know where I came from because family history obviously heavily influences the
values that we developed as adults I was born literally a few miles away from here on East 26 th Street in Kings Highway and mine lived in a dream half room rent controlled apartment my father was a paint salesman who were caught his entire life but never made much money and my mother raised my brother and me I learned a great deal
about immigration as a child because my father preponed at the age of 17 without nickel without knowing one word he came to the United States to escape the crushing poverty that existed in his community and to escape widespread anti - semitism and was good that he came to this because virtually his entire family was wiped out by Hitler and Nazi bombers I am NOT going to tell you
a desperate company cannot be true but what I ' m going to tell you is that coming from a middle - class family about money or really lack of money was always a point of stress in our family my mother ' s dream was that someday rent controlled apartment to a home that tree was never fulfilled she died while we still live in that control of the park my experience as a child living in a family that struggled economically powerfully influenced my life and my
values I know where my something I will never I like Donald Trump who shut down the government and left 800 , 000 federal employees without income to pay I know what it ' s like to be in a family that lives paycheck to paycheck now it is true I did not have a father who gave me millions of dollars to build three
skyscrapers casinos and country clubs I did not come from a family that gave me a $ 200 , 000 allowance every year beginning at the age of three as I recall my allowance was 25 cents a week but I had something would I had the role model of a father who had unbelievable courage in German across an ocean with no money in his pocket to saw a new and better life I did not come from a family
of privilege that prepared me to entertain people on television by telling workers you ' re fired I came from a family who knew all too well the frightening power employers can have over everyday workers I did not come from a family that could afford to send my brother and me to an elite boarding school in fact I was educated probably in high quality public schools in begin my higher education right here
I should also mention that my brother Larry graduated from Brooklyn College that taught me to build a corporate empire through one of the proudest days of my life was attending the march on Washington for Jobs and Freedom led by dr . boninger brothers and sisters over the last two years and before you and I and millions of Americans have fought for justice in
every part of our society and we ' ve had some successes together as billionaires and watch corporations of attack unions destroyed pensions deregulated the banks and slashed wages we have succeeded in reins in the minimum wage to 15 bucks an hour in states and cities together we lost Amazon and the Disney Corporation to do the same
together is the forces of militarism have kept us engaged in never - ending Wars we have stood together and fought back for the first time in forty five years we have utilized the War Powers arm to move us forward to end the horrific saudi - led war in Yemen so many of our young people have received criminal records for nonviolent offenses we have fought to end the war on drugs
and I ' ve seen we have won some victories but clearly we have a long long way to go and I am here to tell you that because all of the work we have done together we are on the brink of not just being an election but transpose
when we are in the White House we will not be Federal jobs guaranteed to ensure that everyone in this country is guaranteed to be done in this country we will attack the problem of urban gentrification and give the affordable housing this country desperately needs we are in the white house we will end of America we will have decent jobs
the common - sense gun safety legislation that the overwhelming majority of Americans wanna see we ' re going to address not only the national disparities of wealth and income but the racial disparities we are going together to institutional racism
we please make no mistake about the struggle that we are undertake is not just about the feeding Donna trouble this struggle is about saving on the incredibly powerful institutions that control the economic and political life of our nation the true publicist
military complex brothers and sisters we have an enormous amount of work in front of us will not be everything they will do to defend their financial interests
this is what I believe from the bottom of my head if we do not allow Trump and his friends to divide us up if we stand together black white Latino Asian American native the Bourbon if we say together and move north south east and west if we stand together not as red states and blue states working we believe in justice and human if we stand together in love and compassion if we stand together brothers and sisters
the future of this country is extraordinary and there is nothing
ladies and gentlemen welcome to the stage Vermont senator Bernie Sanders thank you all very much my wife Jane let me thank all of the people in this room for the important work you are doing every single day together here in Iowa and all across this country we will defeat the most dangerous president in the history of this country together we will end the racism in the sexism in the Islamic
obeah and the homophobia and all the other phobias that this president exhibits and we will end white nationalism in this country as well together we will protect American democracy and the rule of law and together we will create an economy and a government that works for all and not just the 1 % but let me be as clear as I can be we will not defeat Trump unless we have
an agenda that speaks to the pain and reality of the working families of this country millions of whom are working longer hours for lower wages we will not defeat Trump unless we have the courage to take on the powerful corporate interests who dominate our economic and political life the American people want are begging Congress for common - sense gun safety legislation and that is why we have to have the courage to take on the NRA the
American people understand that climate change is real and that is causing devastating problems in our country and all over the world and that is why we have to have the courage to take on the greed and recklessness of the fossil fuel industry the American people understand that in the year 2019 we must make public colleges and universities tuition - free and cancel all student debt in this country but in order to do that we are going to have to end an absurd
tax system that allows Wall Street and major corporations to get huge tax breaks and the American people understand increasingly more and more every day that health care is a human right not a privilege and every poll that I have seen tells me that the American people agree with many of us in this room that we must pass Medicare for all but to do that we are going to have to take on the pharmaceutical industry which charges us the highest prices in
the world for the medicine that we need to do that we are going to have to take on the whole health care industry which made a hundred billion dollar in profit last year and the only way I know how we take on Wall Street and the drug companies and the insurance companies and the fossil fuel industry in the NRA is when we have an unprecedented grassroots movement of millions of Americans standing up fighting back and demanding an economy
and a government that works for all of us and not just wealthy campaign contributors brothers and sisters brothers and sisters in this unprecedented moment in American history we need an unprecedented grassroots movement join our effort and let us reclaim American democracy and the government a government that works for all people thank you all very much
