president who ever has embraced so many autocrats and dictators and stiff - armed our friends it ' s worrisome it ' s a concern eight years of this presidency you ' ll find our alliances are fundamentally changed and by the way we need these alliances we are cannot be the policemen of the world alone the folks we ' re not going to let this happen you know unlike anything in my lifetime I see this election is is different in
And whenever possible , we should act alongside allies and partners to share the burden and invest the international community in success .
democratic legitimacy that ' s the world that I see of enormous possibilities and achieving it I think is an urgent task that cannot wait our grandparents didn ' t wait why the hell should we why if this is not going to be measured a hundred years from now one of those inflection points in world history I don ' t know what will measure up to that definition as I said the world as I see it has enormous possibilities and achieving is an urgent task so we have to join
But our leadership does not spring from some inherent American magic . It never has .
going to continue to impact all of our nations all of our nation ' s I just was asked by the president of Columbia Columbia to meet with him after he met with our president we were unable do it because I was coming here and he was going to New York and we long conversation we should all be looking not just that Columbia and the impact that migration has has is a consequence of the disillusion of in my view of Venezuela this is a this is a
And I want to say at the outset , you ’ d expect me to be more optimistic than maybe others you ’ ll hear from or have heard from . But I am truly optimistic about America ’ s future . I think we ’ re better positioned than any nation in the world by a long shot — any region in the world — to be the dominant political , economic , and military force for the better part of this next century .
non - compete agreements you know the ability to bargain for yourself not as a not as an a part of an organization a non - compete agreement you ' re making sandwiches for it used to be making summaries from Jimmy John ' s you have to sign a non - compete agreement and they changed it and so you couldn ' t walk across town and maybe get a dollar an hour more working for another McDonald ' s or Garvey ' s or whatever it was what ' s that all about it ' s all about one thing
of self - confidence in themselves in the authoritarian model a lot of people critique us the Americans and say you ' ve lost that self confidence that Truman and Eisenhower and Kennedy and Reagan and Barack Obama had how do you respond to that and is edible is that our biggest challenge I think first of all we got to stop treating NATO like a protection racket which is the way we ' re doing it now NATO is based on US core values democratic principles as shared
that matters we have a hell of a lot to be worried about a hell of a lot to be worried about it ' s almost like we ' ve taken for granted a system that ' s provided such security stability that we don ' t have to do anything more with it to in fact continue that same stability and so in the interest of time what I ' d recommend everybody do here is read you and duck loose article and what ' s in the harvard one of the Harvard publications NATO at 70 an alliance in crisis is
together and meet this call to leadership head - on to honor our commitments to one another we can ' t be divided not in our countries and not between in among our countries because if if the strength of our transatlantic alliance falters authoritarian powers will rush in to shape a world according to their interest not ours not ours so we have to work harder to connect the work we do here in Munich and London and Brussels Washington the United Nations
first time in a long long long history that that ' s considered but today the reason you know got to ask yourself what had this happen how do we get here and I think the main reason we got here is because we ' ve there used to be a basic bargain in America but today that bargain that drove the most successful economic engine in the history of the world that bargain is pretty simple if you contribute to the welfare of the outfit you work with you got to share in
was a big deal or words that effect but fact of the matter was it was a big deal and you know folks let me say something else the fact of the matter is that Barack Obama is an extraordinary man you measure a man or a woman ' s worth and their courage based upon how they react to overwhelming crises I watched this guy everything but locusts landed on his desk not a joke he had an incredible and his integrity his dignity his decency you know he was the president our kids
As we take on the threats posed by cyber attacks and disinformation from foreign actors , we can ’ t ignore the threat posed by foreign dark money . With a new Congress about to be sworn in , there ’ s an opportunity to finally end the permissive environment for foreign dark money in this country . Campaign finance reform is certainly a necessary part of the solution , but so too is disclosure of beneficial ownership and greater transparency in real estate transactions . As matters of national security , these are issues that should be of interest to both Democrats and Republicans who want to reduce our vulnerability to foreign corrupt influence .
So , folks , my hope is that not only will this presidential election be behind us , but that we will begin — because I think the vast majority of Republicans up on the Hill , as well as Democrats know this is not the way to do business . They know it .
The fact that we don ’ t know exactly how much foreign dark money is being channeled into U . S . politics is precisely why we need to reduce our vulnerabilities . There is ample evidence of dark money penetrating other democracies , and no reason to believe we are immune from this risk . In 2004 , for example , Lithuania ’ s president was impeached after the media disclosed that a Russian oligarch who contributed to his campaign later received Lithuanian citizenship . Just this past January , in Montenegro , a local politician was charged with laundering Russian funds to support a pro - Russian political party . In Australia , an intelligence report leaked in 2017 exposed pervasive Chinese financial influence in the country ’ s domestic politics . Similar allegations recently surfaced in New Zealand .
Governments have a basic responsibility to respect the universal rights of their citizens . Our region embraces that precept in the Inter - American Democratic Charter — that means that all the countries of this hemisphere , including the United States and our friends and adversaries alike , have a duty to support the people of these countries . All our citizens want the same basic things : a job that pays a fair wage and puts food on the table , education for our children , security for our families , respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms , a sense of opportunity and the hope that tomorrow will be better than today . The region used to look to the United States on such matters . But if we tarnish our example , we must expect that they will look elsewhere .
We ’ ve earned it — over and over again — through hard work , discipline , good judgement . It stems from our willingness to see challenges on the horizon and step forward first to meet them .
tariffs and trade wars that are underway America was built on innovation and creativity we demand to be treated fairly but there is no one in the world anywhere in the world that were afraid to compete with if even there ' s close to a level playing field nowhere it ' s who we are how we define ourselves the America I see doesn ' t decry the science of a changing climate or deny the truth that ' s in front of our eyes America ' s the mayors I ' ve missed
Placing American democratic values back at the center of our foreign policy does not mean we should impose our principles abroad or refuse to talk with nations whose policies run counter to them . There will always be times when keeping Americans safe requires working with those whom we find distasteful . But even when we must make those hard choices , we can never forget who we are and the future we seek .
Charlottesville , Va ., is home to the author of one of the great documents in human history . We know it by heart : “ We hold these truths to be self - evident , that all men are created equal , endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights .”
Folks , America ’ s an idea , an idea that ’ s stronger than any army , bigger than any ocean , more powerful than any dictator or tyrant . It gives hope to the most desperate people on earth , it guarantees that everyone is treated with dignity and gives hate no safe harbor . It instills in every person in this country the belief that no matter where you start in life , there ’ s nothing you can ’ t achieve if you work at it .
They understand our systems much better than Americans understand theirs .
atlantic treaty organization committed to collective security and the unquestioned pledge of an attack on one is an attack on all which is a sacred commitment that we all have made a sacred commitment we all have made those were revolutionary choices that our parents and our grandparents made it took courage to walk away from the world as it has always been mired in conflict hobbled by rivalries and take steps towards the world as it might be it took
American democracy is rooted in the belief that every man , woman and child has equal rights to freedom and dignity . While the United States is far from perfect , we have never given up the struggle to grow closer to the ideals in our founding documents .
Around the world , including in the United States , we are seeing the resurgence of a worldview that is closed off and clannish . President Trump keeps longstanding allies such as Germany at arm ’ s length , while expressing admiration for autocrats like Vladimir V . Putin who thwart democratic institutions .
Now , the next administration will make its own choices about how to wield American power , and how to direct our resources , but as I look forward to what they will inherit , I see three major areas that will define our engagement with the world in the coming decades . And that ’ s what I ’ d like to spend a few minutes talking about with you today .
destined to tip the global balance in their favor and succeed in their efforts to divide us that ' s not the reason no it ' s true that we ' re navigating new relationships with a rising China and a declining but increasingly aggressive Russia China seeks to establish itself as a hegemon and a global power player and Russia is using every tool at our disposal to to sow discord and to stabilize the democracies in Europe including Ukraine where it ' s
Finally , the United States needs to be an active partner to defend the democratic character of our region . This has been a persistent challenge — one the United States has not always risen to — but with the tides of nationalism and populism rising once more throughout the region , and growing threats from autocrats and their henchmen , principled U . S . leadership is needed more than ever .
Environmental disruptions , pathogens , computer viruses , malicious ideologies — these threats don ’ t respect borders . And no matter what others may claim , we cannot wall ourselves off from these challenges . Even in simpler times , isolationism never offered more than a false sense of security . True security reminds us to grapple with and requires us to grapple with globalization and an interdependent world to find common solutions that span borders .
the United States of America we can ' t do anything god bless you and may God protect our troops and I made it thank you
The American public is sick and tired of the dysfunction . The instinct is to throw all the rascals out . But I ’ m convinced that we are in a domestic inflection point , too ; that my colleagues are beginning to listen more closely to the pattern of the cadence of the political process out there . So my hope is these next four years will be much better positioned with a President who understands and Congress that can vehemently disagree , but ultimately concludes there has to be compromise . If that occurs , and it will occur , it may not occur in the next two years , but it will occur , there is not a single thing that we can ’ t do as a country .
Last year , ISIL ’ s top leader Baghdadi revealed the goal of their attacks was to “ Compel the Crusaders to actively destroy the gray zone themselves . Muslims in the West will quickly find themselves between one of two choices : Either apostatize or immigrate to the Islamic State and thereby escape persecution .”
Permanently defeating this scourge will likely take years .
Ladies and gentlemen , in less than a decade CNAS has built something impressive . It ’ s growing stronger and it ’ s getting more influential year by year .
for real folks the good news is the bad news you ' re gonna see a whole heck of a lot of me I promise you this no one ' s gonna work harder in Iowa than Joe Biden to get your support and gain your confidence and Rob came back and Senator thank you so much and I want to also say hello to the art who that your state representative and and I don ' t even know Todd to Senator Taylor and Brent Linn County Supervisor you know I used to be a supervisor if we call him councilman
hesitancy and uncertainty I know that it ' s due in part to the perception of the United States itself is holding back and uncertain that we ' re pulling away from the world and from our leadership responsibilities and I know you heard a lot today about leadership but in my experience leadership only exists if somebody and others are with you leadership in the absence of people who are with you is not leadership and so to state the obvious while I
During the past two years , that foundation for cooperation has been needlessly yet determinedly destroyed . Our neighbors , including some of our closest allies and largest trading partners , have endured a torrent of antagonism from our president . Canada and Mexico have been repeatedly bullied , while Central American and Caribbean countries have been derided with derogatory epithets . The president has now twice canceled visits to Colombia , our key ally in regional security , and he has rolled back the travel and commerce that afforded Cuban entrepreneurs and families greater independence from the Communist state . The harrowing scenes we saw this past summer of children being torn from their parents ’ arms at our borders will not soon be forgotten by any of our partners . And , this past April , President Trump became the first U . S . president to skip the Summit of the Americas , the premier regional forum established by the United States in 1994 to galvanize a regional agenda that corresponds with U . S . interests . In short , this administration has wantonly abdicated our leadership in the region .
Foreign powers use three basic tools to interfere in democratic politics : cyber operations , disinformation and dark money . Thanks in part to Mueller ’ s indictments of members of Russia ’ s military intelligence agency ( GRU ) and the St . Petersburg troll farm known as the Internet Research Agency , we have begun to address election - related cyber attacks and foreign disinformation . But when it comes to foreign dark money – money from unknown foreign sources – we remain woefully unprepared .
that are the very foundation of our security prosperity in our position in the world what this is all about what ' s going on is to undermine confidence in democratic institutions that ' s the game that ' s what ' s that play when people are worried and concerned about their futures ladies and gentlemen when a bully illegally takes a neighbor ' s territory and violates arms control treaties that have been the pillar of our common security for three decades we
And thanks to American leadership , the deal includes provisions that raise international standards for the protection workers , protection of workers ’ rights , the environment , intellectual property .
has only gone up in the last several years not down it ' s gone up and the support for NATO is one of those rare issues where Republicans and Democrats to things we can agree on NATO and the fight against cancer they ' re about the only two things right now but lots gonna change I hope but really and truly it ' s the nonpartisan view there was a vote in the House of Representatives as the leader can tell you as the speaker can tell you and overwhelmingly 357 222 no
they used the jaws of life and took them hours to get my kids out and get them the hospital and save their lives they they saved my life I was I suffered from a cranial aneurysm it means a bleed in a and one of your arteries going into your brain and in your head and and most people don ' t make it the old bad joke is how do you know someone aneurysm is on the autopsy table they got me in the middle of a snowstorm all the way down to one of the best neurosurgeons in the
Inspectors are on the ground . We ’ re not home yet , but so far . Tearing that agreement up now would only leave Iran ’ s nuclear program unconstrained , increase the threats to Israel and our partners in the Gulf , and turn the international community against the United States , and sharply increase the prospects of another major war in the Middle East .
That leads me to the second key point I ’ d like to make . The next President will have to manage complex relationships with regional powers , powers that have the capacity to contribute to the international order or to challenge it .
we will be back we will be back don ' t have any doubt about of course America being back doesn ' t mean going backwards simply returning to the policies now ill - suited to a forward march of global challenges or failing to learn from our mistakes we need leadership that sees what ' s coming over the horizon that takes steps to expand and strengthen our capacity and to meet any danger the ideas that underpin this conference a Europe whole free and at peace the north
And the choices the President and I have made over the past seven and a half years , they have been to quote the title of a book , very “ Hard Choices ,” choices that have required very difficult tradeoffs . We ’ ve positioned the United States at the forefront , though , I think of tremendous opportunity .
your Republican legislature has done to that Republic across the board ladies and gentlemen look the fact of the matter is in the 21 st century 12 years of education is not enough to stay in the middle class it ' s simply not enough the fact of the matter is studies show that 65 and over 100 people need an education beyond high school to get a job today today that ' s only going to go up but think about how unaffordable education is for so many many people the
So let me conclude with what I said at the outset . Despite the many challenges ahead , we have more opportunities than ever before . I ’ ve never been more optimistic about America ’ s capacity to lead the world to a more prosperous and peaceful future .
Resilient Ties
out of one trillion six hundred billion and plus we could put every single qualified student in Community College for free we ' d increase our product we give chance the folks the point I want to make here and I ' ll make this a lot as we go forward about how we pay for the program so we don ' t have to punish anybody but to punish anybody and it will actually help everybody we did this survey for the fortune 500 companies when I was
And that ’ s when we heard the words from the president of the United States that stunned the world and shocked the conscience of this nation . He said there were “ some very fine people on both sides .” Very fine people on both sides ?
Nothing gives me more hope for the future than seeing my five grandchildren challenge expectations — They see breakthroughs in technology we can ’ t even yet imagine . But the only way they ’ ll get the chance to fulfill all that potential , is if we take drastic action right now to address the climate disaster facing the nation and our world . More severe storms and droughts , rising sea levels , warming temperatures , shrinking snow cover and ice sheets . It ’ s already happening . And science tells us that how we act or fail to act , in the next 12 years will determine the very livability of our planet . Yet today , President Trump denies the evidence
In August , two dozen state attorneys general asked Congress to pass legislation to disclose the beneficial owners of LLCs . A federal solution to this issue is necessary because individual states compete for incorporation revenue and therefore have little incentive to reform on their own . In Nevada , for example , the process of registering a company has been described as “ easier than getting a library card .” A federal requirement to disclose the true owners and controlling interests of LLCs would allow law enforcement to scrutinize the “ ghost corporations ” that pop up overnight in states like Nevada or Delaware – and that could be used to funnel dark money into our politics .
These are serious challenges that impact the security of U . S . citizens . They require serious and thoughtful leadership . Scapegoating immigrants may offer the hope of short - term political gain , but it doesn ’ t solve the problems or prevent more migrants from attempting to reach the United States . We need policies that reflect the heart and the dignity of our nation — policies that uphold our laws and the sanctity of our borders , as well as our international humanitarian obligations . We also need to invest the political capital necessary to reform our broken immigration system .
The last time Congress took on dark money was after 9 / 11 , in the Patriot Act , when we made it illegal for banks to be “ willfully blind ” to money laundering and requiring them to verify their customers ’ identities . But the lack of any requirement to disclose the beneficial ( i . e . “ true ”) ownership of limited liability companies ( LLCs ) makes it easy for foreign entities to establish shell companies in the United States . These shell companies can then contribute to a 501 ( c ), invest in real estate or channel money directly to a super PAC . Fortunately , there are steps we can take to secure our system and shine a light on these murky transactions .
Leading with our values also means that we speak out when nations violate their citizens ’ rights . If leaders repress their own people , we must make clear that it constrains our ability to cooperate with them . We can meet our security imperatives without giving a green light to dictators who abuse universal human rights .
terrorism and its rotted - out rationale of violence and fear our unflagging commitment to NATO ' s core mission has allowed us to deter aggression among nations to feed ethnic cleansing and bolster our shared security and civility I might add today however our community stands at an inflection point that ' s proving providing a unique test for our solidarity and quite frankly for our future
that is ruling them at this point and there ' s trade - offs and bargains being made by that leadership in order to try to keep the population how can I well not let the population have much of what it wants but you know I think that maintaining a qualitative edge over Russia and undersea technology space and whole range of other things so but not walking away from the possibility of what working on strategic arms control so we ought to be able to walk and chew
That ’ s why we ’ ve invested so much energy to defend and extend the international rules of the road . It matters . We ’ ve signed historic arms control and nonproliferation agreements . We ’ ve led worldwide efforts to lock down nuclear materials , expand trade , protect the environment . And because of the steps we ’ ve taken no country is better positioned to be followed — we just need to be followed by the rest of the world — than we are .
nationalism that twice before has torn this continent apart the European Union is more than an economic Union it is critical critical to security and stability time and again time and again this community is united and stood as a safeguard against the abuse of power by any one nation against the lapping wages of chaos that have threatened us whether it ' s containing the existing danger of an unchecked nuclear arms race or demonstrating our resolve to defeat
I wrote at the time that we ’ re in the battle for the soul of this nation . Well , that ’ s even more true today . We are in the battle for the soul of this nation .
two brothers and a sister my dad ' s absolute Maxim was you ' re never allowed to disagree with your brother or sisters in public you can fight like hell at home but never in public well we used to have our disagreements and we did it among ourselves until we hammered out the approach we wanted to use but today because of I think a lack of leadership coming from the other side of the Atlantic we we find ourselves in a different place it is uncomfortable
Charlottesville is also home to a defining moment for this nation in the last few years . It was there on August of 2017 we saw Klansmen and white supremacists and neo - Nazis come out in the open , their crazed faces illuminated by torches , veins bulging , and bearing the fangs of racism . Chanting the same anti - Semitic bile heard across Europe in the ‘ 30 s . And they were met by a courageous group of Americans , and a violent clash ensued and a brave young woman lost her life .
And it will absolutely require us to keep the world on our side .
The nuclear deal was never meant to resolve all of our problems with Tehran . At the same time , it has opened other opportunities for engagement on narrow issues where our interests align .
you know Brendon there ' s no expression God made man and then he made firefighters I oh and this is not hyperbole I owe the fire service in my state in the fire service across the nation so so much in a personal basis you know we don ' t realize what they do until in fact you you need them they fire service in my state they saved the life of both my sons when I lost my wife and daughter
could look up to parents wanted them didn ' t hear what he had to say well I I believe he was a great president there wasn ' t a day there wasn ' t a single solitary day that I serve with him that I thought I didn ' t that I wasn ' t proud to be with him you know and the Affordable Care Act was one of those most important days we made historic progress we extended coverage of 22 million Americans who didn ' t have it the folks now we have to finish we
was looking for condemnation and we were when those good decent people came and said who were fighting against hate not in supporting him and there was a clash what did he say when I asked he said there were good people some good people on both sides I tell you what I I don ' t think we ' ve ever heard very fine was his phrase very fine people on both sides you know in just a few days ago when the president was critical my saying that and I said it back and wrote an article
Terrorism must — and will — be defeated . But our campaign against violent extremism must be smart and has to remain consistent with American values . The use of force should be precise and proportional . There must be a clear mission that advances U . S . interests .
now manager why doing that that deprived that deprived a significant number of hourly workers and I gonna get the number for you over 4 million hourly workers 1 billion two hundred million dollars in lost wages just last year what ' s that about where did that go that 1 billion two hundred million no no no really he went back to buying back their stock buying back to stock of a corporation in order to raise because 90 % of all CEOs they get their
Over the past two years ISIL has lost 47 percent of the territory it once held in Iraq and more than 20 percent in Syria . We ’ ve taken out thousands of frontline fighters in the battlefield . Foreign fighter flow is down 50 percent . They ’ ve lost millions in revenue .
And one concluding point . The dysfunction in Washington is not only crippling in terms of everything from the Supreme Court to moving from recovery to resurgence . In the 42 years I ’ ve been engaged in the conduct of foreign policy , I ’ ve never seen it have as much negative impact on our ability to conduct our foreign policy .
a pre - existing condition how can how can that happen how can that happen how can we a man or a woman a husband a wife anyone who watches a family member maintain their dignity if an insurance company come along and say you ' ve now in your imperative care you ' ve now reached the end of your insurance no longer you know how can a parent do that how can that be the case excuse me for us we used to say in the Senate a point of personal privilege lot of you knew my
The lack of transparency in our campaign finance system combined with extensive foreign money laundering creates a significant vulnerability for our democracy . We don ’ t know how much illicit money enters the United States from abroad or how much dark money enters American political campaigns , but in 2015 , the Treasury Department estimated that $ 300 billion is laundered through the U . S . every year . If even a small fraction of that ends up in our political campaigns , it constitutes an unacceptable national security risk .
worth the read mr . vice president thank you for your years of service to the Alliance and your faith in us and thanks for being with us today we appreciate a special
I believe history will look back on four years of this president and all he embraces as an aberrant moment in time . But if we give Donald Trump eight years in the White House , he will forever and fundamentally alter the character of this nation — who we are — and I cannot stand by and watch that happen .
It is vital that we maintain our leadership role in the region — not because we fear competition , but because U . S . leadership is indispensable to addressing the persistent challenges that prevent our region from realizing its fullest potential . China and Russia seek economic and diplomatic benefits but do not invest in democratic institutions or good governance . We do , because we benefit from the success of our neighbors and we are impacted by their struggles .
We are a Pacific power . I have spent more time I ’ m told than any world leader with President Xi . I ’ ve had over 25 hours in private dinners with him , just he and I , and an interpreter because of the arrangement that former President Hu and President Obama set up for us to get to know one another . I remember him asking me why we were doing what we were doing in the Pacific . I said , because we are Pacific power . We will remain a Pacific power . And I suggested that our being present was one of the reasons why they ’ ve been able to progress so much because of the stability that has been sustained as a consequence of our presence .
spokes in that my guess was 800 mayor the united states america don ' t hold many the number but the national mayor ' s conference and the governor ' s when we walked away from paris they said we ' re not walking away we are going to demand we meet those standards in our cities and our towns in our states they don ' t decry the science of a changing climate they ' re busy getting to work to protect their communities against more frequent more severe storms
Our disengagement comes at a time when others are stepping up in the region . China is now the largest or second - largest trading partner of virtually every country in South America ’ s southern cone , and the Chinese have successfully convinced the Dominican Republic , El Salvador and Panama to change their diplomatic recognition away from Taiwan . Russia too is expanding its reach throughout Latin America and the Caribbean . Our geopolitical rivals are eagerly filling the vacuum of leadership as the United States pulls back .
In the summer of 2014 , President Obama asked me to lead our response when an estimated 68 , 000 unaccompanied minors came across the border .
Yet , even sensible efforts by this administration to exert pressure on Maduro and Ortega have been undermined by politicization , faulty execution and clunky sloganeering . Stronger diplomatic efforts and intensified sanctions on Venezuela have been clouded by saber - rattling and misguided efforts to engage with coup plotters . Similar responses to the civil unrest and state repression earlier this year in Nicaragua produced little in the way of results as that country settles into an intolerable “ new normal .” This administration has demonstrated its willingness to capitalize politically on crises , but actions like its continued deportation of Venezuelans and the attempted revocation of “ temporary protected status ” for Nicaraguans demonstrate little concern for the Venezuelan or Nicaraguan people .
I believe this is one of five times in American history we find ourselves at an inflection point . The choices we make today will steer the future of our world for the next three decades . In this moment of uncertainty , the world desperately needs steady American leadership more than ever before .
partners when outbreaks are disease ravaged populations in Africa and other parts of the world and spread across borders we contain them more effectively and efficiently because we coordinate with you we send doctors we send nurses equipment and a life - saving mechanism and medicines when the outbreaks cease when when autocrats seek to chip away at the faith in our institutions metal in our elections we present a unified front to demand to defend democratic values
but Kahn had had an express he defined the dignity this way he said people should never be treated as a means to an end but an end in themselves folks but today ' s corporate culture in this administration they don ' t care about your dignity they ' re squeezing the life out of workers they ' re making a decision that they could harder and harder for us to meet our basic people to meet their basic needs stripping under their personal dignity
with that god - awful tax cut the president to put you on by the way y ' all did really well on that right y ' all really saw things go look folks look folks the you know we had they we have to eliminate some of the one trillion six hundred billion dollars in loopholes that are in the law right now you can ' t possibly justify them you can ' t justify them all as I said when a very conservative Republican was president named Reagan there were eight
in wholesale retreat from the interests and values that have guided us time and again to be willing to shoulder our responsibilities of leadership in the 20 th century and we can do that again we must do that again the America I see does not wish to turn our back in the world or our allies our closest allies indeed the American people understand that it ' s only by working in cooperation with our friends that we are going to be able to harness the forces of a rapidly
Real estate deals are also susceptible to foreign money laundering because they are largely exempt from the “ know your customer ” rules that apply to the banking industry . This allows foreign entities to use shell companies to park their wealth in the United States or to channel that money to U . S . political interests ( for example , by purchasing real estate at above - market prices ). Implementing more comprehensive disclosure requirements in high - end real estate and prohibiting all - cash sales above certain thresholds would help create transparency in this sector .
I presented a report yesterday which catalogues all the threats from Putin to Chinese technology to what do we do in Afghanistan we interviewed 60 people on both sides of the Atlantic number one threat for the first time in 70 years NATO does not have in the white house a strong purposeful active leader who appears to believe in NATO and as we listen to people in the Alliance and outside here in Europe and in our country that was the primary threat that
right let me ask you about Russia because you spent a lot of your time in the Senate and his vice president focused on Russia and you ' ve seen the ups and downs in that relationship right now you poot in hacked into our election yet at our election in 2016 has that act that ' s a fact the Dutch French and German elections in 2017 they ' re continuing their cyber operations against us they annexed Crimea they also
The deal speaks for itself . It ’ s working . Iran is complying . Its nuclear program has been substantially rolled back .
Yet in August of 2018 , when President Jimmy Morales announced that he would not renew CICIG ’ s mandate — flanked by military leadership , with U . S .- donated Army vehicles posted in a show of force outside CICIG ’ s headquarters and the U . S . Embassy — Secretary of State Pompeo called Morales to tell him that the United States supported Guatemala . There could not have been a clearer message to kleptocrats throughout the region that the United States is no longer in the anti - corruption business . That hurts all of us .
We need to ensure U . S . leadership continues to be a driving force for positive regional change that will enable all of our countries to prosper and grow . We must pursue the opportunities afforded by greater energy integration , continue to combat the scourge of corruption and share the benefits of trade more broadly , enhance our shared security and rebuild multilateral cooperation in the hemisphere . And we must make sure that when the next Summit of the Americas convenes in 2021 , there will be a U . S . president at the table , ready to lead our region toward the future all our peoples deserve .
Security Requires Respect
and our social stability it ' s because people genuinely believed generally believed that the American Dream was alive that they had access to possibilities I was a Xi Jingping who I ' ve spent when we were when I was president hours and hours and we ' re in a place called the head of China we were in the president now we ' re in a place called Chengdu a city on the Tibetan Peninsula having dinner with one another and we Chetta we each had an interpreter
Most recently , the Trump administration ’ s order to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals — punishing young people brought to this country by their parents , many of whom know no home but the United States — betrays an unnecessary cruelty that further undermines America ’ s standing in the world .
than all the rest of the world combined as my wife the professor would say google it if you doubt me look look the fact of the matter is America the only thing can tear America part is no foreign Emma it ' s America itself and folks we ' ve got to stop it everybody knows who Donald Trump is I want to make sure they know who we are Who I am we choose hope over fear we choose unity over division we Tru truth over lies and we choose science over fiction this is
look the second thing that I will do my plan that I will do is make sure we finish the job on healthcare folks folks I don ' t have time to give you a lay out all the details all the plan that ' s going to come out as I can ' t paint across here for you but does that mean because it will keep you here forever but folks we ' ve got to finish the job when we passed the Affordable Health Care I told President Obama it
Union you guys built the middle - class folks on a serious note you know y ' all know in your gut y ' all know in your gut that this election for president is different it ' s different than then any election we ' ve gone through not because I ' m running is different and the reason it ' s different is the very core values of our nation our standing in the world our very democracy everything is made America America is at stake and we know why
We took a similar approach toward climate change , harnessing science , technology , and relentless diplomacy to forge the Paris agreement . And in the process , we created an historic opportunity to head off a truly existential danger — an opportunity to head it off .
Just ask Osama Bin Laden and al - Qaeda ’ s top operatives in Afghanistan and Pakistan . Or the leaders of al - Qaeda affiliates in Yemen and Somalia . Or more than 120 ISIL top leaders and commanders .
should be reacting to the time doesn ' t permit me to speak to but the bottom line of all this is it seems to me that we have to just acknowledge straight up Russia is a malign actor but that doesn ' t mean we should not be looking for opportunities to make agreements with Russia where there ' s a mutual interest and by the way I don ' t think we should give up on the Russian people I don ' t think we should give up on the Russian people they have a kleptocracy
they occupy the Donbass they invaded Georgia they ' re preying on the Baltic countries how do we both contain a refortified NATO contain Russia in Europe but also we ' re going to have to deal with them on Iran in the future Afghanistan North Korea what ' s the balance in our relationship with Russia well first of all I think we have to be explicit in our response and make clear to Russia that there ' s a price to pay for these transgressions of
We laid the foundation for a global transition toward clean , renewable energy , through unprecedented investments at home
We steered the economy that was in collapse through an arduous recovery . And we ’ re poised to enter a period of significant resurgence . We ’ ve gone from crisis , to recovery , to on the verge of genuine resurgence if we seize the moment .
And the results have to be sustainable . Lasting victory against al - Qaeda and ISIL requires viable , local forces to hold liberated areas , rebuild shattered communities , and govern effectively .
Leadership Vacuum
hides climate science produced by his own Administration , and actively works to roll back what progress we have already made . It ’ s reckless , it ’ s irresponsible , and it is unacceptable . So today , I ’ m announcing my plan for a Clean Energy Revolution — it outlines what we have to do to meet this challenge head - on and how we ’ re going to get there . We ’ re going to invest $ 1 . 7 trillion in securing our future so that , by 2050 , the United States will be a 100 percent clean - energy economy with net - zero emissions . And — by the end of my first term — we ’ ll have an enforcement mechanism in place to make sure we stay on track to get there . We ’ re going to make record - breaking investments in researching and developing zero - carbon technologies so that America is the engine of the world ’ s clean energy economy — exporting cutting - edge equipment stamped “ Made in the USA ”
Finally , a foreign policy built on our values must stand firm against foreign powers that celebrate a perceived withdrawal of American leadership as an opportunity to increase their influence . Without the United States standing as a bulwark for global democracy , illiberal powers like Russia will take increasingly aggressive steps to disrupt the international order , bully their neighbors and return to a more divided world .
But if we turn inward , if we undermine our most important relationships , or seek soundbite solutions to defined by complexity — issues defined by complexity ; if we forget who we are ; if we begin to betray our values and embrace intolerance ; I think we ’ ll squander all of the hard - earned progress , and we ’ ll squander the opportunities that exist for us today .
One of the key loopholes is the ability of so - called super PACs to accept money from U . S . subsidiaries of foreign corporations . And while super PACs are required to file financial disclosure reports , non - profit 501 ( c ) organizations ( for example , the National Rifle Association or the U . S . Chamber of Commerce ) are not . So if a foreign entity transfers money to a 501 ( c ), that organization can in turn contribute funds to a super PAC without disclosing the foreign origin of the money .
what you know my dad who didn ' t know what ran an automobile agency telling me he didn ' t create thousands of jobs by those cars being sold and folks on the line didn ' t change them you ' re telling me that the people who grow our food process the food package our food sell our food deliver our food they ' re not job creators look folks this is getting yes just backwards backwards I think it ' s incredibly important that restored the dignity of work you know my dad used
action to address climate change that impacts will have on every single human being on this planet a world that sets a level playing field for global trade reduces inequities that increasingly is dividing our societies and prepares for dislocations that we ' ll continue to see as technology changes the nature of work a world that with decency and dignity joins together to address accelerating rates of migration humanitarian crises that are that are not going away and are
you and make no mistake about it when you confront of it the country was not built by Wall Street bankers and CEOs and and and hedge fund managers it was built by ordinary Americans doing extraordinary things not a joke that ' s a historical fact you built America the neighborhoods you and I come from built America because it was built by as I said the great a great American middle class because folks the history of the journey of this country has been we have
believe the world still needs us to fill and you can count on the United States to do this because a simple reason it is overwhelmingly in our self - interest overwhelmingly in the self - interest of the United States of America it ' s beyond being Noble it ' s beyond being generous it is in our self - interest as it is in yours I ' d respectfully suggest after World War two we made investments in security and prosperity the Security and Prosperity
and for a Clean Power Plan — that limited carbon emissions from both existing and new power plants . As President , I will lead America – and the world – not only to confront the crisis in front of us – but to seize the opportunity it presents . I will use every authority available to me to drive progress . And I will not accept half - measures . Because making these revolutionary changes is going to take an incredible commitment at all levels , but I am absolutely confident , that ’ s what the American people want to do , and we can meet this challenge . Because this is what America does best — solve big problems , with big ideas . That ’ s who we are . That ’ s who we ’ ve been . We ’ re the United States of America . And there ’ s not a single thing we cannot do . And the world badly needs us to do it .
values and know a commitment each other . we we used to talk about why this was important and and we have to stop taking NATO for granted you know it ' s it ' s this strange I think as I ' ve traveled throughout Europe which I ' ve done a lot over the last 12 to 15 years there almost seems in some of your countries the notion that well you know NATO work so well we don ' t have anything to be worried about it we we don ' t have much to be worried about well the truth
Thank you all so very , very much .
the benefits if an enterprise hit hard times everyone took a hit from a CEO to the secretary but folks the only people today who benefit the only people who benefit now today because that bargain is broken are the CEOs and when the company does well the CEOs and the shareholders are the only beneficiaries not their employees the only people get hurt when a company goes through tough times are their employees you things have changed I have a hawk
Embracing Putin at a time of renewed Russian aggression I believe would call into question America ’ s longstanding commitment to Europe whole , free and at peace . But neither is it time to dust off the Cold War playbook . We ’ ll have to continue cooperating with Russia where our interests overlap . And as new military technologies arise — raise the stakes of miscalculation and escalation , we need channels with Moscow to clearly communicate our intentions .
get sick what happens we lose everything what happens to my family folks look we have to finish this job and the way we ' re gonna do that is we have to not only keep them from continuing to eviscerate the Affordable Care Act but we got to make sure that whether you ' re covered by your employer on your own or not at all you should have a choice to buy into a public option out there fine like Medicare it should be a right people have the third
These are also the values that tie us to our closest allies — the friends we depend on to address major global challenges . They must believe that the United States will continue to support them and to stand up for democracy .
The constant American endeavor to live by our values is a great strength that has drawn generations of strivers and dreamers to the United States , enriching our population . Around the world , other nations follow our lead because they know that America does not simply protect its own interests , but tries to advance the aspirations of all .
the spread of wildfires and insect borne disease shrinking glaciers rising sea levels and record temperatures and you don ' t have to take my word for it there ' s plenty of data illustrating how widespread this feeling is among Americans the United States should not be the world ' s policeman but according to a recent Chicago Council survey 70 % of the American people say it is best for the United States to take an active part in world affairs and that number
Rather than implementing draconian policies or tear - gassing civilians , we worked closely with Congress to help the Central American governments address the root causes pushing people from their homes . We put together a $ 750 million program to help them combat corruption and human trafficking while increasing domestic revenue and tax collection — and we made our assistance conditional on results . During our final years at the White House , Honduras overhauled its police force to root out widespread corruption , Guatemala collected hundreds of millions of dollars from tax - evading companies and expanded cooperation between our transnational anti - gang units and Central American law enforcement resulted in successful operations like the May 2015 indictment of 37 members of the street gang MS - 13 in Charlotte , North Carolina .
But to be frank , to be frank , this deal has a long way to go to get passed through the United States Congress . Because whether in trade , maritime security in the South China Sea , or nuclear non - proliferation in Northeast Asia , the United States has to lead by writing the rules of the road in this vital region . Otherwise we leave a vacuum that our competitors will rush to fill .
The results ? Well , we ’ re winning and ISIL is losing .
Take , for example , the problem of corruption . It ’ s a cancer that erodes the capacity of nations to govern , drives away crucial foreign investment and can metastasize into a crisis of legitimacy in fragile democracies . From the Panama Papers to Brazil ’ s “ Operation Car Wash ” scandal to the rampant cronyism in Venezuela and Nicaragua , we have ample evidence of how corruption undermines progress throughout the region . The people of Latin America are sick of the region ’ s systemic corruption .
We have found some common ground . We ’ ve made some historic progress to address global challenges like climate change , epidemics , development , non - proliferation .
international norms and and I think we have to we have to be straightforward about it and we had to be prepared to take certain actions for example we have to strengthen the alliance by which we did NATO did - the two meetings ago that by establishing virtually continuous air land and sea presence on NATO ' s eastern perimeter but it goes beyond that I think we have to make it clear that partners outside of NATO like Georgia and Ukraine we have to help them in
every way we can to help them become more resilient to Russia ' s malign and influence and you know I want to be explicit that I ' m not concerned about Russian influence in Europe alone I ' m very concerned about Russian influence in the United States of America it ' s real it ' s consequential and unchecked and unchallenged it can cause us great great difficulty especially at a time when there ' s so much uncertainty on the economy because the world is changing so
said well there goes biding that big spender again but guess what eliminating one of the six hundred or the one loophole of the one trillion six hundred plus billion dollars just is called stepped - up basis stepped - up basis means if you have a capital gain on the way to cash it in God for you get hit by a truck your kids get the gain they don ' t pay a single tax it ' s not inheritance tax in the tax own ten seconds earlier it ' s 17 billion dollars
On the other side of the Pacific , we ’ ve recharged our engagement with Asia , the world ’ s most consequential region . The next administration is going to inherit treaty alliances with Australia , Japan , South Korea , the Philippines . And they ’ re stronger than they ’ ve ever been .
There ’ s that old expression that Tom Friedman used . He said , if you don ’ t visit the bad neighborhood , it will eventually visit you .
over work why do you pay for example warren buffett got it right he pays a lower tax rate than his secretary how can that possibly be in this country how can we the place where since that tax cut got gone in effect twice as many American corporations that are multibillion - dollar covers pay zero in taxes how can that be how can that be justified it ' s wrong it ' s not only economic it ' s morally wrong with you go
thank you folks it ' s great to be back with round seeing off a lot of friends you know it ' s good to be back in this very building last time I stood here was at the end of the last election and you elected your new representative Abbey Fink an hour to the United States Congress thank you thank you thank you I really mean it thank you and they took over the Congress the House of Representatives now democratic kanzen Lord Lord she is doing one heck of a job
The breakdown of U . S .- Latin American relations in such a short time is striking , but it is not beyond repair . The shared values and history that bind the U . S . together with Latin America and the Caribbean — as well as Canada — have proven durable and resilient through many missteps and recalibrations . But steps need to be taken — and soon — to ensure that the current breach does not deepen into a divide that damages U . S . relations with the hemisphere for a generation .
Maintaining our alliances isn ’ t always easy , to state the obvious . But the United States is wealthier and safer because the world ’ s strongest democracies are in our corner . It ’ s just common sense .
When Secretary of State Rex W . Tillerson said that it was important to “ understand the difference between policy and values ,” he wrote off the very thing that makes the United States exceptional . And at a time when democratic values are under siege around the globe — from populist attacks that undermine confidence in democratic institutions to leaders who try to bolster their power by closing the space for civil society and rolling back citizens ’ rights — the world cannot afford to have America cede the field to illiberalism and intolerance .
That ’ s why we ’ ve partnered with African nations , from Nigeria to Somalia to Tunisia , to go after al - Qaeda and ISIL affiliates .
that that the future lies over here not there we have time for one more question I thought one of the most interesting parts of your speech was when you say we can ' t go back to the old NATO we ' ve got to build a new NATO and you ' re right and that ' s maybe even to unite our East Asian allies and our NATO allies not in a formal military alliance but in political common cause and here ' s the question because it seems that the Russians and Chinese have a lot
security for your family in yourself being able to do something that you can leave behind being able to be in a position that you ' re able to do something that in fact generates some hope for your kids and your families that ' s a dignities about look you know how can you maintain a person ' s dignity if they can ' t how how can they maintain their dignity if they can ' t if they ' re not able to take care of their sick child because they can ' t afford to cover
But to be sure , ISIL is resilient and barbaric , fueled by a bitter ideology of destruction . Even as they retreat from territory in Iraq and Syria , we ’ ll have to keep pressuring on them in Libya and elsewhere , and take the fight to them in cyberspace .
I hope he was kidding . But look , one of the reasons why we prioritize improving relationships with our neighbors , including the opening of Cuba , is our standing in the hemisphere has never been better . The quote I used when I first made a speech at the State Department with a lot of the hemispheric leaders there , I said , it ’ s no longer do we look at what we can do for you , it ’ s what we can do with you .
just as NATO enabled the United States and Europe to lead the twentieth century a reformed expanded institutional capacity should give us the tools we need to take on the looming challenges of the 21 st century we can do this it is not beyond our capacity we can once more take steps towards the world as it might be indeed quite frankly as it must be and future generations are to enjoy the dividends of peace progress and prosperity a world that takes radical
so that the daily lives of our people in our countries are more secure these same people who I met all across the United States who may feel disconnected and discounted ignored left behind they still believe as I do and I mean this I promise you they still believe as I do in the core values enshrined in our alliances and that believe they are worth defending because they ' re smart enough to know it ' s in their own naked self - interest as
vision to do that now we must once again some of the vision to make significant decisions about how to organize the world for the next 50 years and more NATO needs to be updated and modernized to keep us strong and United I think that starts with investing more in our alliance so we ' re better equipped to take on the existing threats that we face and those on the horizon but it won ' t be enough to simply strengthen a though as it is we need to make it
But a strong economy — I ’ ll never forget , I ’ ve been around so long , the first two years I served , Stuart Symington was still in the Senate . God , I ’ m getting old . But he had a refrain . He always talked about , our entire foreign policy rests on a strong , growing economy . It ’ s an obvious thing . A strong economy is the foundation of our unrivaled military , part of the layered defense we ’ ve built to keep America safe . And we are so tragically reminded again in Orlando where I visited last week of the dangers that exist . We have to remain vigilant against an increasing , diverse range of threats .
From our ability to lead by example and draw partners to our side , that ’ s what has always been America ’ s greatest capability . Not empty bluster . Not a sense of entitlement that fundamentally disrespects our partners . Not an attitude , an insecurity of a bully .
With our partners and allies , particularly in Europe , we ’ ve imposed real costs on Russia for its absolute outward aggression towards Ukraine .
gender their ethnicity their religion where they live whether they have a disability everybody gets in this time everybody but for me that will be what I consider the measure of economic success as a nation not just the growth of the GDP at its core at its core it gets down to a fundamental issue the dignity of work you know being able to provide and what do I mean by that they need work is being able to provide provide for the
worldwide responsibility just as what the migration patterns here in Europe are it ' s not any one country ' s responsibility a world that not only champions democracy in the context of our days but believes on the on the promise it delivers on the promise of democratic governance to improve our future rooting out corruption that strangles the rule of law and stymies democratic abilities to benefit their citizens all while undermining
The United States cannot afford to draw back from our responsibilities now . There is simply too much at stake . We need a President who can unite the Western Hemisphere and work like hell trying ; continue to build our alliances and partnerships in Asia ; manage extremely complex relationships with China , Russia , and Iran ; and lead the world to address transnational challenges , including the persistent threat of terrorism .
As we continue to urge our allies to do more , denigrating our closest partners as liabilities is a serious and tragic mistake . The United States built the basic architecture of international order after the devastation of World War Two . And it has served us very , very well , and the world very well for the past seven decades .
on Atlantic magazine at the time it occurred he now has come down and doubled down on concocting a phony story about how these violent thugs only wanted to protect the statue of Robert Ely give me a break oh no I mean this is enough enough man this is nonsense the very rally was advertised advertised as the white supremacist rally anti - semitic chants were clear hatred was on the March and he knew it as I said I said at the time
you know but there ' s been a war not only on by by waging the war against collective bargaining which has helped build a little class and secure the rights of people who aren ' t members of labour we have a 40 - hour a week we have overtime all these things because of Labor even if you ' re not a member of labor but here ' s the point what ' s sort of crept into the system without us really paying much attention to it for the last 20 years
lead abroad the American people understand that as well and so that ' s why there ' s such a so much upset in America about this what I call the the struggle for America ' s soul it goes beyond a single issue it goes to who we are what we stand for America is led not merely by the example of our power but by the power of our example and the example we ' re setting well I should stop the America I see doesn ' t embrace the self - defeating
Whatever Special Counsel Robert Mueller ’ s investigation ends up revealing about Russia ’ s efforts to subvert our democracy , one thing is already clear from the media attention this topic has received : America ’ s democratic institutions are highly vulnerable to foreign influence .
oligarchs are the new weapon in the arsenal of these folks the America I see values basic human decency not snatching children from their parents or turning our back on refugees at our border America ' s no that ' s not right the American people understand please because it makes us embarrassing the American people know overwhelmingly that that ' s not right that ' s not who we are and when America leads by example at home we extend our moral authority to
And our active diplomacy continues to encourage inclusive governance in Iraq and to try to identify a path to deescalate the war in Syria .
During a speech in July , Mr . Trump said , “ The fundamental question of our time is whether the West has the will to survive .” This statement divides the world into “ us ” and “ them .” No American political figure has so narrowly defined our interests since the period between the world wars .
suppressing wages suppressing wages not a joke and the other thing is you know what look what ' s happened companies aren ' t allowed to deny overtime to people who are hourly workers so what do they do they reclassified as people as managers if you ' re if you ' re working in a supermarket and you ' re stacking the shelves but you control somebody who has the carts to drive out too big all the all those cans of tomato soup you ' re stacking a lot of patients say you ' re
The same is true with regard to Russia where our approach is — if appropriately managed — will be marked by a complex mix of enhanced deterrence , strategic stability , and , yes , necessary cooperation .
Many of you here are extremely sophisticated and travel the world and have deep understandings of other parts of the world . I get sent by the President — I ’ ve traveled over 1 . 2 million miles just since being Vice President . When I ’ m sent , it ’ s usually because everybody knows whatever I say is it — because they know I speak for the President . There is never any question . And I mean never .
Wielding the politics of fear and intolerance , like the proposal to ban Muslims from entering the United States , profiling Muslim Americans , slandering entire religious communities as complicit in terrorism , calls into question America ’ s status as the greatest democracy in the history of the world . And in the process , alienating 1 . 5 million [ sic ***] Muslims — the vast , vast majority of whom , at home and abroad , are peace - loving , doesn ’ t make the situation better . It makes it worse . And it plays into the very narrative of the extremists .
and bold initiatives like Power Africa abroad . And we ’ ve demonstrated American leadership can bring our allies together with emerging powers like China , India , and Brazil to protect our planet .
in high school I had an opportunity to go to a expensive school and my dad wanted wouldn ' t let me take the grant made and he didn ' t want me waiting on tables he said my son is not going to do that so I remember going down my senior year afford to change cars with my dad to be able to drive a nice car to the senior prom after a game and I remember running in parking my old car and running asking Mary worth dad says he ' s out in the lane out there I walked out
You cannot define Americans by what they look like , where they come from , whom they love or how they worship . Only our democratic values define us . And if we lose sight of this in our conduct at home or abroad , we jeopardize the respect that has made the United States the greatest nation on earth .
This has stood as the foundation of American foreign policy throughout my political career — until recently .
And we finally move beyond these stale ideological divides . The nations of our region are ready to work with us , as never before , to tackle shared challenges like stemming migration from Central America .
were the battle for the soul of the nation and we are we are in a battle for the soul of the nation that ' s why above all else we have to defeat President Trump in 2020 because the stakes are so so high for what I call the backbone of America we got to reconstruct the backbone over the backbone of America hard - working middle - class Iowans and Americans the country wasn ' t built to make it clear to
with us and he looked at me he said can you define America for me and I said yes I can and I meant it in one word one word possibilities possibility folks I ' m more optimistic about the possibilities of America if we just get up raise our heads up remember who we are this is the United States of America folks with most productive workers in the world we ' re in a situation where America ' s nearly energy independent we used Moab more great research universities in America
in front of his own eyes ,
How can it be said much clearer ? ISIL wants to manufacture a clash of civilizations . They want Americans to view things in terms of us versus them . Why in God ’ s name are we giving them what they want ? And besides , we ’ re so much better than that .
That ’ s what we did when we rallied the world to address Ebola — the Ebola epidemic in West Africa last year . We rejected hysterical calls for quarantines and travel bans and built our response instead around hard facts and science .
my dad was pacing back and forth athletes true story my dad was pacing back and forth now I looked at me said Oh Joey I ' m so sorry honey I ' m so sorry I thought before cell phone thought maybe something happened to my siblings and my mom or something terrible I said what ' s the matter dad said I went to the bank today honey to get a loan to help me to get to school but he said they wouldn ' t give me the loan on it I ' m so ashamed
