Last night in Texas , President Donald Trump once again created a circus of fear and paranoia around our border , telling lies to suit his political purposes .
with each generation going further than the last America prevailed and with the opportunity we built today for a shared prosperity tomorrow America will prevail it begins with reelecting Barack Obama it begins with you it begins now may God bless you and West to United
acceptance letters I remember that I got my first acceptance letter I think was on Friday April 3 rd 1992 and got some rejection letters didn ' t get into Harvard the first time got wait - listed at Notre Dame I guess they didn ' t think I was a good enough Catholic or something I don ' t know but then I started asking and my brother also did well and ultimately we decided to go to Stanford because that was one where we both got in but I
Well , I mean , I haven ' t run for anything in the last few years . The last time I ran for something was 2013 . I passed up the opportunity to run for other positions , so I haven ' t been in a hurry to just run for something . I ' m 44 right now and so I completely understand some people saying ,  ' Hey , you ' re young .  ' But each of the presidents , the Democrats , that have been elected in the modern era  ' Kennedy , Carter , Clinton , and Obama  ' have been young . The oldest was Carter , I think he was 50 or 51 . The others were in their 40 s , so I don ' t think that for those of us that are in our 40 s that there ' s anything special about what we ' re doing .
that ' s the country they helped build the roads and bridges they built the schools and universities they created the rights they fought for in one these open the doors to a decent job a secure retirement the chance for your children to do better than you did and that ' s the middle class the engine of our economic Road with hard work everybody ought to be able to get there and with hard work everybody ought to be able to stay there and go beyond the dream of raising a
Of course . Because Trump uses the wall and the issue of immigration in general as a political ploy to drum up his base , because he ' s convinced that ' s the only way he can win this election .
So here ' s what we ' re going to say to Mitt Romney in November . We ' re going to say , and audience ] " No ." Of all the fictions we heard last week in Tampa , the one I find most troubling is If we all just go our own way , our nation will be stronger for it . Because if we sever the threads that connect us , the only people who will go far are those who are already ahead . We all understand that freedom isn ' t free . What Romney and Ryan don ' t understand is that neither is opportunity . We have to invest in it . Republicans tell us that if the most prosperous among us do even better , that somehow the rest of us will too . Folks , we ' ve heard that before . First they called it " trickle - down ."
I ' m going to abandon the baseball metaphor for just a second , just because I ' m not sure where to take it here , but do you see that pride as the central feature of Trump ? Oh ! Is it that pride that you ' re swinging at ? Or is it more than that ?
all right good afternoon well thank you very much Victor for that introduction you know I ' m gonna have to rip out your page in that book yeah now that you said that well it ' s good to be here with y ' all I ' ve heard that y ' all have had a great program so far you know I had one of these days you know I had one of these days today where we ' re having a big event this morning the kickoff of the mayor ' s Fitness Council but the only
grandmother and us my mother and my father had separated and so my mother took us to the auditorium to hear from the staff at Rhodes middle school and at some point in the presentation in this almost cliched way that you hear in the movies the counselor said I think it was a counselor said oh you know you all should look around the room meaning the students because the chances are that maybe up to half of y ' all may not be here when it ' s time to get out of
It was very convenient at the time .
babies is a smart or a good or a right way to do it we say no to building a wall and yes to building community we say no to scapegoating immigrants and yes to dreamers yes to keeping families together yes to finally passing comprehensive immigration reform in this country if we all work together we can build a nation more prosperous not only for those who are already doing well but for everybody else we can raise the
here ' s no magic to it ,  ' Juli ' n Castro says , sitting in a window seat at a busy tavern across the street from the New Hampshire statehouse in Concord . He ' s talking about how to get people to pay attention to his young presidential campaign , given his long - shot status and the likelihood that he ' ll have over a dozen rivals for the Democratic nomination . He ' ll just have to do the hard work of campaigning , he insists , as he and his aide work through how the weather  ' along with the imperative to get to a TV studio in Manhattan  ' is already messing with his plans . The Obama - era secretary of Housing and Urban Development , who was the mayor of San Antonio before that , is wrapping up his first swing through this influential state as a candidate .  ' We ' ve seen spectacular examples of candidates who started off with 2 percent , 3 percent , and ended up getting the nomination ,  ' he says , still in a pressed dark suit nearing the end of a ten - plus hour day of campaigning , a few days after launching his campaign in the city where he grew up and served on city council before becoming mayor . Castro  ' whose mother has long been a well - known activist there , and whose twin brother Joaquin is a congressman  ' has been out of office since Donald Trump got to the White House . Since then , he ' s been preparing for this campaign , in which he ' s the only Latino candidate .  ' In fact , most of the time  ' at least half the time  ' that ' s been the case . Whether it was Carter , or Obama , or a number of other people .  '
basically started applying to all of the universities that I had heard were great universities I applied to Harvard wide to Stanford applied to Berkeley applied to Princeton applied to Trinity in fact I applied to pan and a couple of others and then and UT but not am I ' m just kidding but then you ' ll never know really and after the applications were done and and you know you still you get your
more to provide for their families so I would look at it ways in our tax code to make sure that we deliver on the promise to benefit working people I would also make sure that we appoint people to the National Labor Relations Board and other offices that have an appreciation for the right to organize we need to invest in basic things for workers like housing that they can afford and also make sure that we invest in a different health care system so that they can get good
this incredible woman had taught herself to read and write in both Spanish and English . I can still see her in the room that Joaquin and I shared with her , reading her Agatha Christie novels late into the night . And I can still remember her , every morning as Joaquin and I walked out the door to school , making the sign of the cross behind us , saying , " Que dios los bendiga ." " May God bless you ." My grandmother didn ' t live to see us begin our lives in public service . But she probably would have thought it extraordinary that just two generations after she arrived in San Antonio , one grandson would be the mayor and the other would be on his way - the good people of San Antonio willing - to the United States Congress -- My family ' s story isn ' t special .
to ensure opportunity for all of our children . The days we live in are not easy ones , but we have seen days like this before , and America prevailed . With the wisdom of our founders and the values of our families , America prevailed . With each generation going further than the last , America prevailed . And with the opportunity we build today for a shared prosperity tomorrow , America will prevail . It begins with re - electing Barack Obama . It begins with you . It begins now . Que dios los bendiga . May God bless you , and may God bless the United States of America . Thank you , thank you .
undocumented immigrants as long as they haven ' t committed a serious crime on a pathway to citizenship and then we cut to the root cause of the issue which is we need a Marshall Plan for on dudas and wat de mala and infallible so that people can find safety an opportunity at home instead of coming to the United States to seek it
after he claimed that we ' re facing an invasion at the border the president called it a national security crisis well there is a crisis today it ' s a crisis of leadership Donald Trump has failed to uphold the values of our great nation yes there are serious issues that need to be addressed in our broken immigration system but seeking asylum is a legal right and the cruel policies of this administration are doing real harm and damage one of the things that I
from Germany and from other countries it ' s a community also built by Native Americans families who worked to build a future folks who came here to serve our country at Fort Sam Houston and Lackland and Randolph Air Force Base and today this community represents America ' s future diverse fast - growing optimistic a place where people of different backgrounds have come together to create something truly special and I ' m proud to call myself a son of San Antonio
union you and I we stand on their shoulders generations of men and women who made beds and made sacrifices who fought in wars and fought discrimination who picked crops and also stood in picket lines they didn ' t wait they made our nation what it is today and now it ' s our turn to take that baton and to make our nation better than it ' s ever been before to my fellow Americans from Texas to
think about the challenges in front of this city I think about the importance of teachers who can inspire you the individual difference that they can make in the classroom the beauty and the strength of a parent who loves his or her child and is committed enough to stay involved in their education and make a difference in it and the importance of a child who has aspirations they see the stars and they want to reach him and the thing is I
It dismantles what generations before have built to ensure that everybody can enter and stay in the middle class . When it comes to getting the middle class back to work , Mitt Romney says , " No ."
scientists tell us that if we don ' t get serious about this right now the consequences will be tragic so we won ' t wait as president my first executive order will recommit the United States to the Paris climate Accord we ' re gonna say no to subsidizing Big Oil and say yes to passing a green new deal so those are just some of the ways that we ' re going to become the smartest the healthiest the fairest and the most prosperous nation on earth
Eagle Pass , along with El Paso , McAllen and many other communities along the border , is one of the safest cities for its size in the United States today . The facts tell us that apprehensions at the southern border are at some of their lowest levels since the early 1970 s , and that it was like this long before any walls were built .
Sandra bland shouldn ' t still be alive today we ' re gonna keep saying their names and those of too many others just like them who were victims of state violence we ' re going to keep saying that black lives matter while working toward a justice system where that ' s true and you know what else is true for far too many people they can ' t afford bail and an accusation alone can swiftly turn into a jail sentence in our country innocent until proven guilty shouldn ' t
brother Joaquin and I were raised by my mom where we went to school we were baptized just over there at the wall a little bit church we got a great public school education just a few blocks away and I had the honor of serving these neighborhoods as mayor of San Antonio for five years you know this morning I rode the number 68 bus with my brother down while the Lupus Street like we did so many times when we were kids only this time I brought my
Who knows ! But somebody !
good morning Eve widow ' s the us first of all I want to say a big thank you to to my mom I bet there are a lot of y ' all that may have come here to see her instead of me you know my mom grew up on this west side of San Antonio and she got involved in politics a long time ago because she wanted to improve her community here on the west side to make
Of course . But I ' m interested , too , in how you think about countering him . It sounds like you see that pride as a defining quality of his , or a pressure point ?
sure that folks had basic things like streets and drainage and so she got active back then and the Young Democrats and then she ran when she was 23 years old with this slate called the committee for body of Betterman and their slogan was give government back to the people back then as y ' all remember they didn ' t have single - member districts so very few women and people of color ever got elected all of that slate of the committee for body or betterment lost in
It made me think about the path my own family took to arrive in the U . S ., through a border crossing at Eagle Pass , Texas . That ' s where my grandmother , Victoria Castro , entered the U . S . as a seven - year - old orphan from Mexico . She then came to live with her nearest relatives on the west side of San Antonio . In San Antonio , she raised my mother as a single parent , and my mother raised my brother and me as a single parent . Eagle Pass is where our family started in America , so I visited a border crossing there to record a short video .
work to make sure every American has a safe decent and affordable place to live in this country you know as housing secretary I visited a hundred different communities big and small all across our nation from downtown Los Angeles to rural Wisconsin to San Juan Puerto Rico and the Pine Ridge Reservation and this much is clear we have a housing affordability crisis in this country today too many families are spending more than half of their income on rent
here tonight began many miles from this podium my brother Joaquin and I grew up with my mother Rosie and my grandmother Victoria my grandmother was an orphan as a young girl she had to leave her home in Mexico and move to San Antonio where some relatives had agreed to take her in she never made it past the fourth grade she had to drop out and start working to help her family my grandmother spent her whole life working as a maid a cook and a babysitter barely scraping by but
No . I mean , you know , Carson had called it social engineering . He had referred to AFFH as social engineering before . So it didn ' t surprise me , I just had hoped that as somebody that grew up in poverty , challenging circumstances , himself , that he might understand the value of making sure that everybody could have good housing opportunities across the country .
If only you could choose your own headlines , you know ?
Oh , no doubt . I think a lot of reporters in 2016  ' and beyond that  ' have played up that aspect of me . I don ' t know why , because it certainly can ' t be what they ' re hearing . I don ' t even think that they ' re talking to the Latino community out there . If you noticed , on Saturday for people who were watching , there was a tremendous amount of pride that a lot of people in the Latino community had , and I think , just , a lot of folks in journalism didn ' t see  ' don ' t see  ' how my candidacy is going to resonate with the community . Whether I ' m 100 percent fluent in Spanish or 50 percent fluent . I mean , it ' s the common experience of people that have come over from different countries , you know  ' again  ' whether they came over from Germany a long time ago , or Italy , or people who have come over from India , you see this pattern of second - generation Americans who might not be quite as fluent as their parents were , their grandparents were , in the mother tongue , but of course are still proud of their background . And I ' m able to speak some Spanish , but I ' m not completely fluent . I have no doubt that over the course of this campaign , using it the way that I will , I will become more fluent , and I look forward to that .
to all Americans President Obama got it done he made a historic investment to lift our nation ' s public schools and expanded Pell grants so that more young people can afford college and because he knows that we don ' t have an ounce of talent to waste the president took action to lift the shadow of deportation from a generation of young law - abiding immigrants called dreamers now it ' s time for Congress to enshrine
What ' s special is the America that makes our story possible . Ours is a nation like no other , a place where great journeys can be made in a single generation . No matter who you are or where you come from , the path is always forward . America didn ' t become the land of opportunity by accident . My grandmother ' s generation and generations before always saw beyond the horizons of their own lives and their own circumstances . They believed that opportunity created today would lead to prosperity tomorrow . That ' s the country they envisioned , and that ' s the country they helped build . The roads and bridges they built , the schools and universities they created , the rights they fought for and won - these opened the doors to a decent job , a secure retirement ,
Yeah , no wall . There ' s basically another form of NAFTA , even though he made it seem like he was going to get rid of NAFTA . He lives as a confidence man , and by creating an impression with his base that may even stick , even if his actions counteract those [ promises ].
business he said but how borrow money if you have to from your parents he told him gee why didn ' t I think of that some people are lucky enough to borrow money from their parents but that shouldn ' t determine whether you can pursue your dreams not in America not here not in the 21 st century I don ' t think governor romney meant any harm I think he ' s a good guy he just has no idea how good he ' s had it
many of y ' all know gottena and in our little one could he ' s gone I want to thank each and every one of you as well for being here today and joining us what a great crowd we got out here I also want to take a moment to say thank you to the press who are here you know there was a time there was a time when Joaquin and I thought we were going to go into journalism and so I know that the press work hard and that they are the friend of the truth in this country thank you
and Black Eyed " I Gotta Feeling "] Castro ] Thank you , thank you , thank you , thank you , thank you . _ My fellow Democrats , my fellow Americans , my fellow Texans - I stand before you tonight as a young American , a proud American , of a generation born as the Cold War receded , shaped by the tragedy of 9 / 11 , connected by the digital revolution and determined to re - elect the man who will make the 21 st century another American century - President Barack Obama . The unlikely journey that brought me here tonight began many miles from this podium . My brother Joaquin and I grew up with my mother Rosie and my grandmother Victoria . My grandmother was an orphan . As a young girl , she had to leave her home in Mexico and move to San Antonio , where some relatives had agreed to take her in .
Not in America , not here , not in the 21 st century . I don ' t think Governor Romney meant any harm . I think he ' s a good guy . He just has no idea how good he ' s had it . We know that in our free market economy some will prosper more than others . What we don ' t accept is the idea that some folks won ' t even get a chance . And the thing is , Mitt Romney and the Republican Party are perfectly comfortable with that America . In fact , that ' s exactly what they ' re promising us . The Romney - Ryan budget doesn ' t just cut public education , cut Medicare , cut transportation and cut job training . It doesn ' t just pummel the middle class - it dismantles it .
to black and brown communities out there that deal with the impact of excessive force by police I would say that we see you we hear you I ' m who Leon Castro and this is a word about why ending police brutality is so important to our country when I think about police brutality I think about police using excessive force on someone I was about 17 years old when Rodney King was beaten by the Los Angeles Police Department and that stands out in
connect us the only people who will go far are those who already ahead we all understand that freedom isn ' t free what Romney and Ryan don ' t understand is it either is opportunity we have to invest in it Republicans tell us that if the most prosperous among us do even better that somehow the rest of us will - folks we ' ve heard that before first they called it trickle - down then they called it supply - side now it ' s Ryan Romney Ryan
a month Social Security check and it was time to apply to college I was ranked number 9 in the class and I think my brother was ranked number 27 or something like that but don ' t tell him that and I got a 12 10 on the SAT which is not horrible but is not great either there are a lot of folks to get a higher grade than now higher SAT score than that and but when it came time to apply to college what I did was that I
Probably pride . But pride is also a weakness . A fastball can be tracked the way that a curveball , or a changeup , is harder to hit .
No , not really . I mean Trump has been talking about that for 30 years . About how he thinks that the United States is getting ripped off by China . The problem is that the president has done a terrible job when it comes to laying the groundwork , setting the foundation to actually outcompete a country like China . He ' s chosen a go - it - alone strategy that is hurting everybody from farmers in Iowa to business owners in Texas . And it doesn ' t help many people .
Ha , I think it ' s ridiculous to say that he was a bad president . He was a good president ! He was one of the most effective presidents that we ' ve had in a very long time and certainly a much better president than President Trump .
was an activist she was she was active in the Chicano Movement in the late 1960 s and 70 s and different women ' s issues when my brother Joaquin and I were young she used to drag us to a whole bunch of rallies and meetings and when you ' re 10 years old the last thing that you want to do is go to a rally you know nobody seeks your opinion nobody cares what you have to thank everybody Pat ' s on the head you don ' t know what Republican and Democrat are
Oh , for sure . It ' s part of the lack of diversity in journalism . And , you know , I ' m going to go out there and be myself . I did that on Saturday [ at the campaign launch ]. I did that [ campaigning ] in Puerto Rico . I ' m going to speak English and Spanish .
There ' s no Democratic front - runner , but there is an incumbent in the White House ! It ' s not like  ' 08 !
the 8 th grade and you know I was I guess at that point 12 years old 11 years old that flew by me didn ' t mean anything to me but my mother after she heard that after the orientation was over she yanked us out of Rhodes middle school and instead enrolled us at the foyer middle school which was you know about a mile and a half away the multilingual magnet school of the SAISD because she saw at that time that that staff didn ' t have much confidence in her sons or the
may God bless you my grandmother didn ' t live to see us begin our lives in public service but she probably would have thought it extraordinary that just two generations after she arrived in San Antonio one grandson would be the mayor and the other would be on his way the good people of San Antonio will to the United States Congress my family ' s story isn ' t special what ' s special is the America that makes our story possible ours is a nation like no
where Las Palmas is we lived off of while the Lupus Street on eat all go in the SAISD at this point we had switched to the SAS D and we were supposed to go to middle school and our neighborhood school was Rhodes middle school and before we were supposed to enter the sixth grade they had an orientation in an auditorium in Rhodes and the students were supposed to go there with their parents and by this time it was just my mother my
working toward one destiny and that destiny is to be the smartest the healthiest the fairest and the most prosperous nation on earth again in this 21 st century we must be the smartest the fairest the healthiest and the most prosperous nation on earth demanding anything less is a failure of vision in achieving anything less he ' s a builder of leadership to be the smartest nation requires an early investment in
Worth well but what about Eric garner and Tamir rice and laQuan McDonald and Sandra bland and Turner and I ' m Tony Otto say I ' ve tried during this campaign to focus on police brutality because I see that affecting so many people though my people first policing plan has many different elements to it today I want to focus on ending the school to Prison Pipeline ending qualified immunity and investigating police shootings in this
Yeah ! The impression that it left was that there ' s a value in participating . A lot of people grow up with a deep skepticism , if not cynicism , about politics and politicians , and I had some of that skepticism when I was a teenager , but fundamentally what I got from my mom was an appreciation for participating in the process . And , you know , unfortunately what I doubted back then was whether you could actually make a real change by participating , because they were coming from this outsider perspective , and I didn ' t see a lot of change happening at that time . It ' s only with the sweep of time that I can see that , of course , there was significant progress that was made because of the efforts of a lot of people , and that that was through political involvement and political participation .
It just broadened my experience , because after that I got to travel the country a lot more , and get a sense of the politics in different places . When I was mayor of San Antonio I was in a nonpartisan system , and then when I was in the Cabinet  ' even though I wasn ' t in Congress , you were in the middle of a very partisan system . So what I hope is that I ' ve brought this spirit of trying to bring people together based on the experience of being a mayor , and trying to get things done in a nonpartisan system , but understanding the realities of a partisan system .
I do , to the extent that it ' s serving people who are vulnerable , and who are under attack , and balancing things out . Because we ' ve had , for the last 40 years , since Reagan , a move to reward and invest in people at the top more and more , and we ' ve seen a declining middle class . We ' ve seen that upward mobility has increased in some other countries , but decreased in the United States . We rank lower in terms of upward mobility than where we used to , against other countries , and we ' ve fallen in terms of educational achievement against other countries around the world . So yeah , when we ' re out there championing health care for everybody , when we ' re championing things like universal pre - K and universal higher education so that people can get the skills and the education they need to get a good job , that ' s a good thing .
You know , I read a lot of articles from different magazines , but off of Twitter . You know , I ' m on Twitter all the time , like a lot of people .
actually actually actually MIT Romney said yes and now he says no Governor Romney has undergone an extreme makeover and it ain ' t pretty so here ' s what we ' re gonna say to Mitt Romney in November we ' re gonna say no of all the fictions we heard last week in Tampa the one I find most troubling is this if we all just go our own way our nation will be stronger for it because if we sever the threads that
Oh , my brother and I grew up reading a loooooot about serial killers .
their little backpacks on a lot of them were excited some of them were crying truth be told more of the parents were crying than the students sure there were some tears of sadness of seeing their little ones walking into school for the first time but there were also tears of joy the joy of knowing that a great pre - kindergarten education was the first step on the road to a brighter future today we live in a world in which brain power is the new currency of success if
daughter gotta you know with me that was the same route that we used to take with my mother to get to school or to go to her work during the summer I want you all to look around this neighborhood there are no front runners that are born here but I ' ve always believed that with big dreams and hard work anything is possible in this country this community is a community like so many others across the nation a community of good people of humble people people who go to
and stifle that investigation and not share the facts of what happened I want to make sure that the federal government has a role to play in getting the truth out I ' ve heard the voices of folks who have called for abolishing the police I understand the frustration because for the longest time it seems like this system has been built up with a racial bias in it that plays itself out every single day and what I want to see is that we have policing that is fair to
We have to come together and invest in opportunity today for prosperity tomorrow . And it starts with education . Twenty years ago , Joaquin and I left home for college and then for law school . In those classrooms , we met some of the brightest folks in the world . But at the end of our days there , I couldn ' t help but to think back to my classmates at Thomas Jefferson High School in San Antonio . They had the same talent , the same brains , the same dreams as the folks we sat with at Stanford and Harvard I realized the difference wasn ' t one of intelligence or drive . The difference was opportunity . In my city of San Antonio , we get that . So we ' re working to ensure that more four - year - olds have access to pre - K .
Well , what I believe is that he set a foundation , a strong one , that we can build upon . There ' s no president who ' s going to get 100 percent of what the party faithful , or certainly the activists in this country , want , but he made tremendous strides for the country on health care . Seven presidents beforehand had tried to extend health care and didn ' t . I expressed disagreement in 2014 with some of the immigration policies , but the administration got a lot better on the immigration issue as time went on , culminating in DAPA and DACA . And it ' s night and day between the Obama administration approach , at the end of the administration , and the Trump administration .
matter who you are or where you come from we have always been at our best but we ' re united by something bigger and in this journey in the days to come together we will show that hope can be bigger than fear that life can be bigger than darkness and that truth can be bigger than lies and as long as we work for it tomorrow we ' ll always be better than today so let ' s go work love with us
kid that was great that felt great from then on that year I was a little bit ahead of the class and I felt like wow I can really do this school thing I can excel at it it ' s something that I take pride in you know I attach myself to being able to be ahead of the rest of the class a few years later Joaquin and I had finished up elementary school and we were getting ready to go to middle school and we lived on the west side not too far from Las Palmas if you all know
the chance for your children to do better than you did . And that ' s the middle class - the engine of our economic growth . With hard work , everybody ought to be able to get there . And with hard work , everybody ought to be able to stay there - and go beyond . The dream of raising a family in a place where hard work is rewarded is not unique to Americans . It ' s a human dream , one that calls across oceans and borders . The dream is universal , but America makes it possible . And our investment in opportunity makes it a reality . Now , in Texas , we believe in the rugged individual . Texas may be the one place where people actually still have bootstraps , and we expect folks to pull themselves up by them . But we also recognize that there are some things we can ' t do alone .
No , not most folks . I agree with a lot of the reservations that people have . I do think we need to hold countries accountable who violate trade agreements that are already in place . We need to get stronger about enforcement , that in the future if we strike a trade agreement , toughening up labor standards and environmental standards and enforcement standards is something we absolutely need to do . The thing is , look at what President Trump did on this renegotiation of NAFTA . He didn ' t scrap NAFTA , what he did is make a few incremental changes to it . And so I hope that the American people get that even the president recognizes that there can be value in boosting American workers and American companies , and there can be a mutually beneficial relationship that we have with other countries in trade .
" No " When it comes to respecting women ' s rights , Mitt Romney says , and audience ] " No ." When it comes to letting people love who they loge , and marry who they they want to marry , Mitt Romney says , and audience ] " No ." When it comes to expanding access to good health care , Mitt Romney and audience ] says , " No ." Actually - actually , actually , actually , Mitt Romney said , " Yes ," and now he says , and audience ] " No ." Governor Romney has undergone an extreme makeover , and it ain ' t pretty .
my mind from the time that I was young as an example of raw police brutality that left an imprint on me and as I ' ve grown up and as this video age and cellphone age has emerged what I ' ve taken note of what I ' ve seen is just video after video after video that shows us the evidence of police brutality out there especially against young black men and young black women and y ' all saw a couple of days ago what happened to Tatyana Jefferson in Fort
don ' t have my wedding ring on and that ' s always the way that I tell people to distinguish between me and Joaquin so obviously well they ' re gonna think that it ' s my brother and he delivered this talk not me I said no but you know he ' s not smart enough to do it so but it really is a pleasure to be here and I know that you all have had some fantastic speakers and hopefully I can contribute a little bit to the conversation you know the topic of his
April of 1971 but an election night one of the local reporters asked her how she felt she sought that she felt good about what they had done and that they ' d be back well mom I think we ' re back you know so many journeys for me in front of my family have started right here and today we begin another one in this journey I am so lucky to have an incredible partner in my wife Erica and a wonderful inspiration in our daughter
But  ' I ' m curious about your analysis of how his mind works  ' do you think that ' s just because of his relationship with McCain , or contrarianism  '
other a place where great journeys can be made in a single generation no matter who you are where you come from the path is always forward America didn ' t become the land of opportunity by accident my grandmother ' s generation and generations before always saw beyond the horizons of their own lives and their own circumstances they believed that opportunity created today would lead to prosperity tomorrow that ' s the country they envisioned and
One reason I ask is the party ' s consensus has also moved toward a much more skeptical position on past trade deals , and you ' ve been pro - free trade , pro - NAFTA . Still ?
That President Trump is setting a low bar ? Well , yeah . But I disagree with those who say  ' in any way , shape or form  ' that President Obama was not a good president . Now , the next Democratic president will have the opportunity to build on some of the things that President Obama did , will have the opportunity to build on DACA and DAPA , for instance , when it comes to immigration . Will have the opportunity to build on the progress that we ' ve made with the Affordable Care Act . Will have , in my old neck of the woods , in housing , will have the opportunity to build on the great progress we made on reducing homelessness . He set progress in motion that we can build on .
My understanding is that it was fairly light , in terms of the conversation .
our children ' s education as mayor I challenged the voters to raise the sales tax to span high - quality full - day pre - k for thousands of San Antonio four - year - olds at the time some said that it was unrealistic even impossible the education wasn ' t my job they said and by the way who ' s gonna vote for a sales tax increase in the state of Texas but the future of this community was my job so I put my faith in the people we called our initiative pre - k for ese and
health care even if they make the minimum wage even though we ' ll raise it because let ' s also not pretend that when we raise the minimum wage to $ 15 that everything is going to be fine for our workers we still have a lot of work to do it ' s the rest of the package connecting those dots and I ' m committed to doing that
I wish I could figure out the rhyme or reason to some of the things he does . I think what he ' s going to do in 2020 is , he thinks his strongest argument is to say ,  ' Look , every other politician tells you something , but then they don ' t do it . I told you something , and even when it was unpopular , even when everybody screamed bloody murder , I did it . So when I tell you that I ' m going to do X , Y , and Z in the next four years , I ' m going to do it .  ' And he believes that with enough of a base , enough of the American people will go for that . But I disagree . I would say in many ways he has abandoned and gone back on what he promised . The biggest example of that being that this is the most corrupt administration  ' the swampiest administration  ' that we ' ve had in a very long time .
starting with veteran homelessness by the time we were done we ' d cut veteran homelessness almost in half in the years to come we can do that and more now the biggest threat to our prosperity in this 21 st century is climate change don ' t let anybody tell you that we have to choose between growing our economy and protecting our planet we can fight climate change and create great jobs in America and here ' s the thing we don ' t have a moment to waste
I don ' t underestimate him . In some ways he was underestimated the first time around , so I certainly don ' t underestimate him . I don ' t believe that it would be easy , but I certainly believe that I can beat him . I don ' t subscribe to the notion that he ' s some sort of political magician . In some ways he ' s like a fastball in baseball . Very predictable , sometimes hard to deal with , but , you know , you pretty much know the direction he ' s going to go in . I ' ll give you a good example of this . When Senator McCain passed away , people from both sides of the aisle  ' even if they disagreed with John McCain  ' they expressed sympathy to his family , and also deep respect for the sacrifices that Senator McCain had made on behalf of this country , and his public service , and trying to reach across the aisle . It would ' ve been the easiest thing in the world for President Trump , and I think he would ' ve gotten a lot of credit , if he had been gracious in that moment . But that would ' ve been a changeup for him , and he doesn ' t do change us .
and the reason that I started to get interested in politics and policy was because I could see how much more was going on there at Stanford and the Bay Area in terms of educational achievement and great jobs versus San Antonio now I could also see what was special about San Antonio you know first of all you could afford a house but also it had a character to it you know kind of a warmth to the city that that felt different when I would come home but the
Well , when you read that for the first time , what did you make of it ?
or is it Ryan Romney either way their theories been tested it failed our economy failed the middle class paid the price your family paid the price Mitt Romney just doesn ' t get it but Barack Obama gets it he understands that when we invest in people we ' re investing in our shared prosperity and when we neglect that responsibility we risk our promise as a nation just a few years ago families that had never asked for anything found
they had the same talent the same brains the same dreams as the folks we sat with at Stanford and Harvard I realized the difference wasn ' t one of intelligence or Drive the difference was opportunity in my city of San Antonio we get that so we ' re working to ensure that more four - year - olds have access to pre - k we open cafe College where students get help with everything from college test prep to financial aid paperwork we know that you can ' t be pro - business unless
She never made it past the fourth grade . She had to drop out and start working to help her family . My grandmother spent her whole life working as a maid , a cook and a babysitter , barely scraping by , but still working hard to give my mother , her only child a chance in life , so that my mother could give my brother and me an even better one . As my grandmother got older , she begged my mother to give her grandchildren . She prayed to God for just one grandbaby before she died . You can imagine her excitement when she found out her prayers would be answered - twice over . She was so excited that the day before Joaquin and I were born she entered a menudo cook - off , and she won $ 300 ! That ' s how she paid our hospital bill . By the time Joaquin and I came along ,
Not really ! Politics hasn ' t gotten that bad that I ' d rather think about serial killers than politics .
Um . Sometimes . Yeah . I  ' I read less and less about things written about me . But I do read articles , whether it ' s in The New Yorker , or the New York Times , or any of the papers out there . I end up reading a lot of the Washington Post , the New York Times , The New Yorker , and then anything that I see that ' s interesting out there on policy , or just good stories . I get less and less time these days to read books . I just started reading that book I ' ll Be Gone in the Dark , about the Golden State Killer . [ Laughs .]
black and brown communities because they ' re the they ' re the ones that are often the victims of police officers who use excessive force that ' s gonna mean that over time you have a greater culture of accountability in police departments across the United States because they know that they could be held civilly liable that ' s gonna make a difference in the long run and I believe is gonna keep especially black and brown communities safer in our country I want
grandsons would be serving as a member of the United States Congress and the other would be standing with you here today to say these words I am a candidate for president of the United States of America cuando me away luego aqui hace casi Serrano ' s estoy seguro que nunca se Maheen okay so low - dose generaciones despues you know doses versus Nieto ' s for Maria parte del congreso de los
Watch the video I recorded from the Eagle Pass border crossing .
Washington State to New England to Florida to California and Illinois to Iowa and to our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico I ' m asking you to join me you give me your support and I give you my word I will spend every day working hard to make sure that you can get a good job that you can find a decent place to live but you can have good health care when you get sick and that your children and grandchildren can reach their dreams no
important asset that you have is your time where do you actually focus your time on a daily basis you get a million invitations yeah you get you get literally if I put all the invitations on this stage that we get through the office you know first of all it would probably literally cover the stage with all the paper but if you went to all those events or jumped on every issue bandwagon you know it would completely take up all of the time in the world
Out of respect , I wanted to give him an opportunity to demonstrate the direction that he was going to go in , and I held off on critiquing Secretary Carson for some time . But it became clear pretty quickly that his administration did not have an interest in people who were poor , that in fact he seems to scapegoat it , or to blame people who are poor . And I don ' t believe that just because you ' re poor there ' s something wrong with you . A lot of people think , for instance , that if you live in public housing that you ' re lazy or you just don ' t want to work . And the fact is that 43 percent of households that are headed by a working - age person , they have somebody that ' s working . So we need to be investing in their ability to be upwardly mobile , not scapegoating or blaming them , or leaving them behind .
noticed that you ' ve been doing very well in your math and she had a textbook next to her that the book that we were using I don ' t even remember what it was how it looked like I just remember it was a book and she said I ' d like for you to do up to page 57 and page 57 was like way ahead of everybody else in other words she was giving me extra work but she said I think that you can do it so that night you know I went home and I did all the way to 57 and I came back the next
Walls do not create real security . Walls create separation and division .
I did not . That policy existed well before I became HUD secretary , and I was the one who came in and said that we ' re going to improve this policy . And we did improve this policy , to try and get more of those mortgages into the hands of nonprofits and organizations that could help build community . That had been policy since 2010 , and I got there in the middle of 2014 , and then we started making changes in early 2016 , or something like that .
Probably to put on ice the Affordably Furthering Fair Housing rule , which we did in 2015 . It was a groundbreaking rule to put teeth into the Fair Housing Act , and it helped to further desegregate communities in the United States by making communities that receive HUD dollars get more serious about how they ' re ensuring there ' s housing opportunity that ' s equal throughout their boundaries . And a few months or so after the Trump administration started  ' Secretary Carson took over  ' they basically put that on ice . That ' s going to have a long - term impact . It ' s the first thing that ought to be reversed when the next president takes over .
No . You know , I was happy to support him . Joaquin supported him in his race for Senate . I believe he ' s very talented , that he ' s going to be a fantastic candidate if he decides to run . You know , so he ' ll be one of 15 or 20 other people who are running . So I expect a crowded race . And , you know , if he decides to run , I ' ll see him out on the trail .
school is your best those are your best years and maybe that was the best years for some of y ' all but for me it was they weren ' t very good okay I mean Jefferson was fine but I was very quiet you know sometimes people ask me the difference between my brother and me and I ' m the introverted one I ' m kind of quiet I know I used to go through the day talking to about three people and one of them was walking just to give you a sense to give you a sense of what
started asking other students about their experience and it was amazing how many folks who had gotten a better SAT score and had gotten better grades ranked higher in the class didn ' t even apply to those schools had not aspired to that even though if they had applied with their grades in their SAT score they probably would have been the ones to get in and you never know what kind of difference in life that actually makes or doesn ' t make but to me when I
Well , it was right during the vice - presidential selection process . The fact is , I bet that I ' ve taken almost no money from , quote - unquote , Wall Street . I ' m from San Antonio , Texas . I have neither represented Wall Street nor actively courted their support , and anybody who reads my record would know that I have been progressive . At the same time , I don ' t  ' X ' anybody out . You know , I ' m not unwilling to listen to people just because where they ' re coming from . I ' ll listen to them , but I ' m not going to be beholden to them . In this campaign , for instance , I ' m not taking any PAC money , corporate or otherwise . I ' m not taking lobbyist money . And so the American people can know that if I ' m making a decision , that decision is not going to be made because I owe anybody anything . It ' s going to be made because I believe that ' s in the best interest of the country . So .
Our choice is a man who ' s always chosen us . A man who already is our Barack Obama . and " four more years "] In the end , the American dream - the American dream is not a sprint , or even a marathon , but a relay . Our families don ' t always cross the finish line in the span of one generation . But each generation passes on to the next the fruits of their labor . My grandmother never owned a house . She cleaned other people ' s houses so she could afford to rent her own . But she saw her daughter become the first in her family to graduate from college . And my mother fought hard for civil rights so that instead of a mop , I could hold this microphone . And while she may be proud of me tonight , I ' ve got to tell you , Mom , I ' m even more proud of you .
dismantles what generations before have built to ensure that everybody can enter and stay in the middle class when it comes to getting the middle class back to work Mitt Romney says no when it comes to respecting women ' s rights Mitt Romney says no when it comes to letting people love who they love and marry who they want to marry Mitt Romney says no when it comes to expanding access to good health care Mitt Romney actually
Oh , no doubt ! Regular people hardly ever ask about it . Everyday people hardly ever ask about that . It ' s journalists and it ' s trolls on Twitter , basically . That doesn ' t mean some people don ' t wonder ,  ' Do you speak Spanish fluently ?  ' But in the press and on Twitter , it ' s much more hyped up than it is  ' for most people it ' s not anywhere near their first concern .
opportunity today prosperity tomorrow now like many of you I watched last week ' s Republican convention and and they told a few stories of individual success we all celebrate individual success but the question is how do we multiply that success the answer is President Barack Obama Mitt Romney quite simply doesn ' t get it a few months ago he visited a university in Ohio and gave students they ' re a little entrepreneurial advice start a
different than it does today but be effective and be fair and help keep our communities no matter where you live safe so that everybody can have a good quality of life in our country
speech said that it was about how does San Antonio compete in a 21 st century economy but I wanted to really kind of pull back the curtain in a sense and can explain from a personal perspective why it is that that I ' ve chosen to focus on one particular aspect of how I think that we can become the city that all of us want to be and that ' s education you know I I I was never interested in politics growing up as Victor mentioned my mother
she ' s still young and her dreams are far off yet but I hope she ' ll reach him as a dad I ' m gonna do my part and I know she ' ll do hers but our responsibility as a nation is to come together and do our part as one community one United States of America to ensure opportunity for all of our children the days we live in are not easy ones but we have seen days like this before and America prevailed with the wisdom of our founders and the values of our families America prevailed
recognize that there are some things we can ' t do alone we have to come together and invest in opportunity today for Prosperity tomorrow and it starts with education 20 years ago Joaquin and I left home for college and then for Law School in those classrooms we met some of the brightest folks in the world but at the end of our days there I couldn ' t help but to think back to my classmates at Thomas Jefferson High School in San Antonio
you know six years ago I had the honor of standing before the Democratic National Convention I said then that the American Dream is not a sprint or even a marathon but a relay my story wouldn ' t be possible without the strong women who came before me and passed me the baton because of their hard work I had the opportunity to stand in front of you today my family story wouldn ' t be possible without a country that challenged itself to live up to the
family in a place where hard work is rewarded is not unique to Americans it ' s a human dream one that calls across oceans and borders the dream is universal but America makes it possible and our investment and opportunity makes it a reality now in Texas we believe in the rugged individual Texas may be the one place where people actually still have bootstraps and we we expect folks to pull themselves up I am but we also
promise of America that was the point of the American dream it wasn ' t supposed to be just a dream America was a place where dreams could become real but the thing is that right now the real a isn ' t working today we ' re falling backwards instead of moving forward and the opportunities that made America the America that we loved those opportunities are reaching fewer and fewer people today we ' re at risk of dropping the baton and that ' s why we ' re
there ' d be no time for anything else the reason that I decided to focus on education is because of my own experience and I wanted to share with you just three snippets three kind of moments that were very significant to me that had a real lesson in them that have informed what I ' m doing now is mayor to boost education and try and enhance San Antonio standing as a city that can compete in the global economy my brother and I started school in the Edgewood
you know see I really have no purpose there other than it would be a furniture kind of so I didn ' t develop an interest really didn ' t even start thinking about running for office until I got to college I went to Stanford and it was when I got there it was really only the third time the second or third time that I had ever been outside of the state of Texas and my brother and I cried half of the way there on the airplane the second time that we ' d ever flown on an airplane
country we know that there is a school to Prison Pipeline and there are a lot of elements to that we need to stop setting up our schools as fertile ground for kids to be arrested and sent into the criminal justice system but because what we see very clearly is that especially young men of color are disciplined more and put into the system by police officers in public schools across this country we can change that and I ' ve called for schools not to use
Probably handing out  ' maybe in 1978 or 1979  ' handing out leaflets , probably at a polling place , I think it was for a city council candidate . I think that ' s the earliest memory that I have of her being involved in politics and me participating in it with her . Yeah , I remember , also , meetings . People talking about politics at our house . But that ' s the most striking memory that I have .
work early and stay late oftentimes at more than one job so they can provide for their family when they go to bed at night they say hopeful prayers they want their children to do well they want good health they want the dignity that comes from a good job and the peace of mind that comes from being able to retire on their own terms this is a community built by immigrants families from Mexico but also families
won $ 300 that ' s how she paid our hospital bill by the time Joaquin and I came along this incredible woman had taught herself to read and write in both Spanish and English I can still see her in the room that Joaquin and I shared with her reading her Agatha Christie novels late into the night and I can still remember her every morning as Joaquin and I walked out the front door to school making the sign of the Cross behind us saying get Yost Mosman Liga
It ' s part of it . It ' s part of the predictability of him . He ' s very predictable . All of that stuff goes together : a pride , a stubbornness , a win - at - all - costs approach where winning is defined as whatever makes him look good . All of that . He ' s a tough character , no doubt , but he ' s also very predictable . And that ' s a weakness , in politics and in life .
know that our city we have a tremendous number of children who have those aspirations I know that we have parents who inspire their children who look out for them and want the best for them and I know that we have a core of teachers who every day go out of their way above and beyond what their job calls for to try and advance their students even though we have 15 independent school districts in this city as mayor I ' ve determined that
even more proud of you today today my beautiful wife Erica and I are the proud parents of a three - year - old little girl gottena Victoria named after my grandmother a couple of Monday ' s ago a couple of Monday ' s ago was her first day of pre - k and as we dropped her off we walked out of the classroom and I found myself whispering to her as was once whispered to me get Iost in Antigua may God bless you
we know that in our free market economy some will prosper more than others what we don ' t accept is the idea that some folks won ' t even get a chance and the thing is Mitt Romney and the Republican Party are perfectly comfortable with that America in fact that ' s exactly what they ' re promising us the romney - ryan budget doesn ' t just cut public education cut medicare cut transportation and cut job training it doesn ' t just pummel the middle class it dismantles it it
Well , first and foremost , I ' m going to give the American people something to believe in . If you read what I ' ve been saying these last few days , and for a while now , I lay out my vision for the future of the country . The No . 1 thing I want a voter to think about when they see my name , or hear my name , is what I stand for , and what I want to do for them and their family while elected . That ' s why I ' m talking about a vision for the United States as the smartest , the healthiest , the fairest , and the most prosperous nation in the world . So that ' s my number one thing , and of course I ' m going to stand up to the president and will provide a lot of contrast , but the most important thing is that people understand where you ' re coming from , and what you want to do for them . Because the election is about them , it ' s not , fundamentally , about the other guy .
and go home and say prayers of thanks to God at night . Since becoming mayor in 2009 , Julian has worked tirelessly to pursue policies that honor the aspirations of the people he represents . I ' m proud that my brother has achieved these dreams , but I ' m even more proud of the work he ' s done to help others achieve theirs . Today , San Antonio is our nation ' s seventh largest city , a city on the rise that looks like American moral . Julian is also a dedicated husband to his wife Erica , a public school teacher and a wonderful father to his 3 - year old daughter , Carina . So , it ' s with much love and pride that I present to you my best friend , my twin brother , San Antonio mayor Julian Castro .
watching that image of Voskhod and his daughter by Lydia is heartbreaking it should also piss us all off if I were president today and it should spur us to action if I were president today I would sign an executive order that would get rid of Trump ' s zero - tolerance policy the remain in Mexico policy and the metering policy and then I would follow that up in my first hundred days with immigration reform that were honor asylum claims that would put
Just two generations after my grandmother came across this border , one of her grandsons , my brother Joaquin , is a member of Congress , and I ' m running for President of the United States . Our nation has always been a country of immigrants , folks who have made a profound and positive difference to our nation ' s progress . That ' s true today , and if we get this right , it will be true tomorrow . We can have a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants , and a greater America because of that .
lasting impression that I walked away with was golly I mean we ' d have more folks from San Antonio who were able to be in environments like this and able to have some of these great jobs that folks here have and what in the world do you have to do in a city to make that happen and as a 18 19 year old you know my first thing was well how did I get here and the answer was education and everyone always tells you when you go into politics that the most
you ' re pro education we know that pre - k and student loans aren ' t charity they ' re a smart investment in a workforce that can fill and create the jobs of tomorrow we ' re investing in young minds today to be competitive in the global economy tomorrow and it ' s paying off last year the Milken Institute ranked San Antonio as a nation ' s top performing local economy and we ' re only getting started
Yeah . But that means politically you have to be even better . San Antonio was a hybrid model with a city manager . The only way a mayor can get things done in that system is if he or she is able to summon the political support for it , and I was able to do that in big ways , with Pre - K 4 SA , a number of other projects that we did .
He knows better than anyone that there ' s more hard work to do , but we ' re making progress . And now we need to make a choice . It ' s a choice between a country where the middle class pays more so that millionaires can pay less - or a country where everybody pays their fair share , so we can reduce the deficit and create the jobs of the future . It ' s a choice between a nation that slashes funding for our schools and guts Pell grants - or a nation that invests more in education . And it ' s a choice between a politician who rewards companies that ship American jobs overseas - or a leader who brings jobs back home . This is the choice before us . And to me , to my generation and for all the generations to come , our choice is clear .
Joaquin and I were active , a little , with the Stanford Democrats . Very  ' I mean , I don ' t want to exaggerate how much  ' a little bit . Mostly , I did volunteer stuff , like tutoring students from East Palo Alto , but I can ' t say I was super active . Then we ran for Stanford student senate , and got elected . At that time I was still following the issues more than I was participating .
back home this is the choice before us and to me to my generation and for all the generations to come our choice is clear our choice is a man who ' s always chosen us a man who already is our President Barack Obama the American Dream the American Dream is not a sprint or even a marathon but a relay our families don ' t always cross the finish line in the span of one generation but
themselves at risk of losing everything and the dream my grandmother held that work would be rewarded that the middle class would be there if not for her than for her children that dream was being crushed but then President Obama took office and he took action when Detroit was in trouble President Obama saved the auto industry and saved a million jobs seven presidents before him Republicans and Democrats tried to expand healthcare
we brought together business leaders with educators with parents and students to make the case and in November 2012 the voters of this city said yes we believe in investing in early childhood education so that next fall I found myself standing outside a pre - k 4 sa Early Childhood Center as the first group of young students arrived for their very first day of school they had
very much for being here well this is a special place for all of us this west side of San Antonio this is the place where my grandmother Victoria came in 1922 when she immigrated from Mexico as a seven year old orphan it ' s where she grew up where she worked hard for years as a maid a cook and a babysitter while raising my mom as a single parent it ' s where my mother became an activist working to improve the quality of life for her own community it ' s where my
The way that I meant that was , I didn ' t see politics itself , even being in politics  ' politicians  ' as making much of a difference . Because , you know , I grew up in this neighborhood where I saw a lot of people that were still hurting . And also , the politics of my mother and her colleagues had been , as activists , I just thought , not making much of a difference . When I was a teenager , my eyes started to open  ' when I went away from San Antonio to college and started to realize , well , this is the best that we have . If you want to make a difference , this is the system to work in . This is the way that it ' s done . That ' s when I started thinking about being a part of it . One thing I remember was being at Stanford in 1994 when Pete Wilson ran Prop 187 in California  ' scapegoated immigrants , the nastiness , the ugliness of that . [ I started ] feeling like , in addition to wanting to get home and improve my own community , that I wanted to act on that kind of ugliness . I felt embarrassed for it .
to make sure that there ' s accountability when somebody gets shot I believe that there ' s a role for the federal government especially when there ' s a potential claim of racial bias that ' s involved in a police incident I also think that what that ' s going to do is add another layer of accountability and assurance that if a police officers involved in a shooting that we know that what happened actually is reflected in the official record we ' ve seen more than
certification program or an apprenticeship accessible and affordable so millions more young people and people who are returning to school later in life can get the skills that they need to get a good job without incurring a mountain of debt now to be the healthiest nation we need a better health care system in this country not a health care system that bends to the will of Big Pharma or the big insurers but a health care system that ' s built
I appreciate people ' s opinion . Ha . But I have a strong vision for the country ' s future , and I ' m going to go out and make the case , and I have no doubt that there are very talented people that are going to run for senator and governor of Texas .
We opened Cafe College , where students get help with everything from college test prep to financial aid paperwork . We know that you can ' t be pro - business unless you ' re pro - education . We know that pre - K and student loans aren ' t charity . They ' re a smart investment in a workforce that can fill and create the jobs of tomorrow . We ' re investing in young minds today to be competitive in the global economy tomorrow . And it ' s paying off . Last year the Milken Institute ranked San Antonio as the nation ' s top performing local economy . And we ' re only getting started . Opportunity today , prosperity tomorrow . Now , like many of you , I watched last week ' s Republican convention . And they told a few stories of individual success .
all here this morning because we ' re going to make sure that the promise of America is available to everyone in this 21 st century you see I learned from my mother so many years ago in this community that when we want change we don ' t wait for change we work for it when my grandmother got here almost a hundred years ago I ' m sure that she never could have imagined that just two generations later one of her
we ' re talking about and then we had skipped a grade so we weren ' t even with the people who we had come to school with in the same grade and we hadn ' t gone to Longfellow which was kind of or man which were the feeder schools so it was all messed up but when it came time to apply to college you know we were in our senior year and applying in late 1991 and in 1991 that year my mother was on her way to earning about $ 19 , 000 a year and my grandmother was getting $ 500
each generation passes on to the next the fruits of their labor my grandmother never owned a house she cleaned other people ' s houses so she could afford to rent her own but she saw her daughter become the first in her family to graduate from college and my mother fought hard for civil rights so that instead of a mop I could hold this microphone and while she may while she may be proud of me tonight I gotta tell you mom I ' m
Don ' t believe Trump ' s lies  ' we don ' t have to choose between border security and being compassionate . We can have both . Join me in restoring the promise of America .
remember most about my grandmother is how she would talk to Joaquin and me about how she came to this country as a child separated from her dying mother even as a 70 year old woman when she remembered those moments she would cry like the 7 year old girl she was when it happened because she never had a chance to say goodbye to her mom yeah we have to have border security but there ' s a smart and a humane way to do it and there is no way in hell that gauging
and applause ] Castro ] Thank you - thank you . Tonight I have the honor of introducing you to our keynote speaker , my twin brother , San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro . As you can imagine , this is a very special moment for our family . For each of us , the places that we call home , shape our character , and form how we see the world and inspire our imagination , who we are as a proud Texan . For 18 years - for 18 years , we shared a small room and big dreams in our neighborhood on the West side of San Antonio . Our home town is a beautiful place , a place of hard working , humble folks , who grind out a living by day ,
minimum wage so that people don ' t have to work two or three jobs just to put food on the table we can protect a woman ' s right to make her own decisions about her body because for women access to reproductive health care is an economic issue we can protect the right of workers to organize and an economy that is quickly changing and leaving too many workers behind we can protect people from discrimination no matter who they love or how they identify and we ' ll
it is a blueprint for 21 st century opportunity and so you know so you know that this is always about you I won ' t be accepting a dime of PAC money in this campaign and as president we ' ll work to overturn Citizens United to get big money out of politics so that ' s why I ' m running and that ' s what I ' m running for now I ' m gonna have a lot more to say in the coming days and weeks about my plans but throughout our nation ' s history even in its darkest days there have always
