onwards to Kentucky and Memphis Tennessee where dr . Martin Luther King jr . went one April day to join sanitation workers fighting for dignity where he preached about the mountaintop and how he ' d seen the promised land and then to Arkansas and Mississippi all the way down to New Orleans where the spirit of resilience abounds the Mississippi River all our rivers they connect us to one another to our shared story for this is how our country was founded with
Restart the President ’ s Export Council . Senator Klobuchar will restart the President ’ s Export Council , which brings together business , labor , and agricultural leaders with Members of Congress and key Administration officials to help promote a comprehensive export and trade strategy . She will also review all international tariffs in place as of 2021 .
Supporting sanctions . Sanctions are a critical tool for responding to and discouraging hostile actors . That is why I fully supported the sanctions President Obama imposed against Russia in response to their interference with our democracy ; North Korea in response to nuclear tests ; and Iran in response to its ballistic missile program . I also voted for a resolution disapproving of the current Administration ’ s decision to lift sanctions on three companies with ties to a Russian oligarch who is an ally of President Putin . The United States must continue to impose sanctions on hostile actors to both defend our democracy and discourage belligerent behavior . We must also stand with our friends when they are faced with aggression from adversaries . That is why I traveled to the Ukraine , the Baltic states , and Georgia in December of 2016 with former Senator McCain and Senator Graham . Our allies in eastern Europe deserve our support in the face of Russian aggression . I am continuing to work to ensure we reinforce our bipartisan commitment to strengthening our NATO alliances .
Restore staffing levels at the Department of Agriculture . Under the first two years of the Trump Administration , between December 2016 and March 2018 , USDA had more staff departures than any other federal agency . This has severely impacted USDA ’ s ability to carry out its mission on behalf of rural communities and farmers . Senator Klobuchar will restore staffing levels to the appropriate levels .
Strengthening the vetting process for visitors and refugees . I have been a strong advocate for our refugees , and I oppose the Administration ’ s “ Muslim ban ” as well as other efforts to reverse long - standing U . S . refugee policy . I have also long supported a strong vetting process for visitors and refugees . The current vetting process for refugees involves layers of security checks , including health checks , repeated biometric checks , biographical and background screening , and in - person interviews by trained officers . Multiple agencies are involved including the FBI ' s Terrorist Screening Center , the State Department , the Department of Homeland Security , the National Counterterrorism Center , the Department of Defense , and U . S . intelligence agencies . The Department of Homeland Security has added an additional country - specific layer of review for Syrian refugee applications . A refugee applicant cannot be approved for travel until all required security checks have been completed and cleared . Another way to help ensure that those who seek to harm us do not get into the United States is to strengthen the Visa Waiver Program . That ’ s why I worked with members from both sides of the aisle to introduce the Visa Waiver Program Security Enhancement Act that was signed into law in 2015 and requires additional biometric information and electronic passports for participation in the program and increasing information sharing between countries .
In 2012 , nearly a thousand Minnesota National Guard troops learned their post - deployment leave benefits had been unexpectedly cut in the middle of their deployment to Kuwait . I worked closely with former Representative John Kline to pass a bill into law in May 2012 to restore the full leave benefits that these Minnesota soldiers – and 49 , 000 soldiers nationwide – had been promised .
Immediately allow for the safe importation of prescription drugs from countries like Canada . Americans pay double what Canadians do for some prescription drugs , which is why Senator Klobuchar will use existing Food and Drug Administration authority to grant a waiver that allows people to import safe prescription drugs for personal use from countries like Canada to decrease drug costs for seniors and all Americans .
America and we rebuilt bigger story than that it ' s awesome save himself he peered off 30 kids he ' s incredible everyday that ' s what all of you do the citizens of this country and that ' s what I ' m trying to do in this presidential race because I see a place of extraordinary power in Washington DC in that White House and I ' ve seen through the years how great presidents
I supported the inclusion of tax credits for energy - efficient products in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and again in the Tax Relief Act of 2010 . These credits reward homeowners who install energy - efficient products – such as new efficient windows , insulation , doors , roofs , and heating and cooling equipment – as well as credits for hybrid and electric vehicles . I supported the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 , which extended the Investment Tax Credit for wind and other renewable resources , and the Production Tax Credit , which provides the renewable energy industry with the stability it needs to make long - term investments . I also supported the creation and extension of the biodiesel and renewable diesel incentives .
Supporting Minnesota tourism and outdoor recreation . Tourism , including outdoor recreation , is Minnesota ’ s fifth largest industry generating $ 12 . 5 billion in sales and nearly 11 percent of the state ’ s total private sector employment . As co - chair of the Senate Tourism Caucus and the former chair of the Senate subcommittee that oversees the U . S . tourism industry , I ’ ve fought to cut red tape and reduce delays to help promote tourism . I pushed to pass the Travel Promotion Act of 2010 into law which created Brand USA , a public - private partnership that promotes international travel to the United States . In 2016 , Brand USA generated more than 1 million additional visitors who spent an estimated $ 4 billion , strengthening local businesses and boosting economic growth . Finally , I led the bipartisan effort to reauthorize the Travel Promotion Act in 2014 so that it can continue to build on its progress through at least 2020 .
teacher and a newspaper man as the first woman elected to the United States Senate from the state of Minnesota to announce my candidacy for president of the United States I am running for this job for every person who wants their work recognized and rewarded I ' m running for every
Reaffirming our commitment to NATO and other international institutions that promote freedom and democracy . The United States must continue to lead the global community toward the common goals of peaceful exchange and interaction . International organizations and institutions can be vehicles for achieving our objectives and serving our national interests , and we must make the most of them .
Create a clemency advisory board and position in the White House that advise the President from a criminal justice reform perspective . Senator Klobuchar will create a clemency advisory board as well as a position in the White House — outside of the Department of Justice — that advise the President from a criminal justice reform perspective . The clemency advisory board will investigate and review requests for clemency for federal offenses and ultimately prepare a recommendation for the President .
Third , we need to up our game .
a future free of fear for the future let ' s go and get it done Thank You Iowa
In fact , the fee has not been adjusted since 2001 . And parties involved in larger deals are not paying their fair share .
Let me explain : Our economy — in terms of nominal GDP — has increased by over 20 percent between 2010 and 2016 . And merger filings have increased by over 50 percent . At same time , our antitrust agencies ’ budgets have been held flat .
don ' t worry we ' ve got your back while your identities in fact are being stolen and your data is being mined our laws need to be as sophisticated as the people who are breaking them we must revamp our nation ' s cybersecurity and guarantee net neutrality for all and we need to end the digital divide by pledging to connect every household to the internet by 2022 and that means you rural America I mean come on if they can
on this island we say enough is enough our nation must be governed not from chaos but from opportunity not by wallowing over what ' s wrong but by marching inexorably toward what ' s right and it has to start with all of us my family story is like so many of yours on both my mom and my dad side they arrived in this country with nothing but a suitcase but they made a home here it
Strengthening vetting for international travelers coming to the U . S . I worked with members from both sides of the aisle to introduce the Visa Waiver Program Security Enhancement Act that was signed into law in 2015 and requires additional biometric information and electronic passports for participation in the program and increasing information sharing between countries . Due to the additional biometric information required under the law terrorist are far less likely to access the program .
and then finished up at the great University of Minnesota he became he became a journalist as a young thank - you person cheering as a young Associated Press reporter he called the 1960 presidential race for John F Kennedy he covered the 1968 conventions he interviewed everyone from Mike Ditka to Hubert Humphrey to Ronald Reagan to Ginger Rogers freedom of the press wasn ' t some abstract idea to my dad he embraced it he lived it my mom a proud
Immediately close the “ boyfriend loophole .” Senator Klobuchar leads legislation in the Senate to close the ‘ boyfriend loophole ’ by preventing people who have abused dating partners from buying or owning firearms , and she will take executive action to get it done immediately .
Before I was a Senator , I was a prosecutor , and before that I was a lawyer .
Every year I visit all 87 counties in Minnesota .
was cold okay maybe not as cold as this they didn ' t know anyone but like so many immigrants they wanted a better life for their families my grandpa worked 1 , 500 feet underground in the mines up north on the Iron Range he never graduated from high school he saved money and a coffee can in the basement to send my dad to college my dad who ' s here at age 90 got a two - year degree from Vermillion junior college
And while aggressive antitrust enforcement might not solve all our larger problems , effective enforcement will alleviate some of them .
When I arrived in the Senate , our nation had already been engaged in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan for several years . Yet the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs were struggling to provide adequate services and benefits to meet the demands created by the new type of conflicts our troops had been fighting . Far too many servicemembers were being sent into combat without adequate body armor or armored vehicles , and far too many were returning to face inadequate treatment for Traumatic Brain Injuries and Post - Traumatic Stress Disorder – the signature injuries of these wars . As we saw with the investigations at Walter Reed Medical Center , many wounded warriors were being housed and treated in unacceptable conditions . And across the nation , far too many veterans faced severe bureaucratic hurdles in order to receive the benefits they earned . Our servicemembers and veterans deserved better and the situation demanded action .
Prevent the expansion of private school vouchers . Senator Klobuchar will stand firmly with our public schools and end discussions of Secretary Betsy DeVos ’ s $ 50 billion proposal to fund private school vouchers .
Well , in the wild west world of MCI , when they were getting ready to relay the first communication between St . Louis and Chicago , investor Irwin Hirsh memorialized that great moment like a modern - day Bell . He said : “ I ’ ll be damned . It actually works .”
Supporting our military families . When we mobilize a soldier , we also mobilize his or her entire family . During deployments , military spouses have to keep food on the table and snow off the sidewalk , mow the lawn and do the laundry , and run the household on their own . While they are overseas , many Guard and Reserve members suffer a substantial drop in their household incomes , and their families often struggle to make ends meet . We must do more to support and sustain the families of our troops before , during , and after the deployment cycle .
you to picture this you ' ve got a bunch of people you know the storm is raging outside and we ' ve got our fired up base and they have stickers on that say like I ' m a Supreme Court voter right I have a Planned Parenthood voter and they ' re all in line and we ' re doing selfies they did it oh and then this one guy comes up he has no sticker on any whispers so that no one else could hear him voted for Donald Trump and then he goes don ' t tell anyone
dad who ' s 90 years old and you always want to thank your in - laws Bill and Marilyn from Mankato Thank You Dudley dee who traveled with Prince for so many years for being here hey if Prince could do that halftime show and all that rain I can do this in this snow sound the blackness Thank You rabbi Zimmerman Thank You friends from across the country this is why we live here Thank You Greater Minnesota thank you our suburbs and thank you the Twin
shoemakers and those carols are still being sung today they are now also the songs of our sisters and brothers a chorus of different faiths races creeds and ways of life e pluribus unum out of one out of many at one it is more than a motto America it is the North Star of our democracy it is the North Star of our effort I am asking you to join this campaign it is a homegrown one I don ' t know if you can even see our number
Improving our water infrastructure . In 2014 , 2016 , and 2018 , I supported the reauthorization of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act that included provisions vital to Minnesota . This legislation makes crucial investments in our ports and harbors , such as the Port of Duluth , upgrades the locks and dams on the inland waterway system and moves forward with critical flood protection , including for Fargo - Moorhead and Roseau . The 2016 reauthorization included my legislation to reauthorize and fund the Great Lakes Fish & Wildlife Restoration Act which provides research , restoration , and conservation of fish and wildlife resources and their habitats in the Great Lakes basin . The 2014 Farm Bill also included an amendment I led with Senators Hoeven and Heitkamp to provide an additional $ 100 million to help address the backlog of water and wastewater projects for rural communities at the U . S . Department of Agriculture .
Combating Climate Change . I support a comprehensive approach that would reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote the development of energy efficient technologies and homegrown energy — and that would put us on a path to achieving 100 percent net - zero emissions by 2050 . As a member of the Senate Climate Action Taskforce , I am fighting to ensure that efforts to address the threat of climate change are a part of our nation ’ s energy and environmental policy . I strongly supported the Paris climate agreement and have criticized this Administration ’ s decision to leave that agreement . I also believe that we must reinstate the Clean Power Plan rules and gas mileage standards that have been reversed by this Administration . I have introduced and supported several bills that would reduce greenhouse gases , and I am leading legislation to increase the information available to federal government offices about the greenhouse gas emissions associated with public projects in order to boost the competitiveness of sustainably produced American - made goods and reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout global supply chains . I also led a Senate resolution recognizing that global climate change is occurring and will continue to pose ongoing risks and challenges to our country unless we take action . I have opposed Trump Administration nominees who deny the science of climate change . The first bill I ever introduced required businesses to record and make public their carbon emissions . That ’ s because I wanted to make one important point : climate change legislation must be a major priority . The cause has grown even more urgent .
Bring back the fuel - economy standards . Senator Klobuchar will restore and strengthen our fuel economy standards , which are key to fighting climate change . The Trump Administration has weakened the fuel - economy standards for cars and light trucks and has challenged the right of California and other states to follow more stringent standards .
I got to tell you remind me my first time I was ever in the White House Bill Clinton was president I was a young prosecutor I had done a lot of work on hate crimes and he invited me to introduce him when he introduced that very important Matthew Shepard bill and as I stood outside I had never been in there before and I ' ve got the President on one side outside the East Room I ' ve got Jan arena on the other and the military band starts playing hail to the
Guard and Reserve members should not be treated differently based on what deployment designation is used to call them up for service . Right now , a loophole in the law means that two reservists serving side by side could receive different benefits based on what law the Department of Defense used to deploy them . This is wrong and must be fixed . Former Senator Franken and I introduced the National Guard 12304 b Benefits Parity Act . The provisions of the bill related to education benefits for soldiers serving under the 12304 b designation were signed into law in August of 2017 . I continue to work with my colleagues to push for passage of legislation that would ensure that health , education , and retirement benefits are not denied to Reserve Component soldiers serving under the 12304 b designation .
As Minnesota ’ s U . S . senator , I will continue to focus on these priorities :
Protect funding for the Northern Triangle . Senator Klobuchar will end all Administration discussions to cut off direct assistance funding for Northern Triangle countries of Honduras , El Salvador , and Guatemala , recognizing that the cuts present a serious risk to our national security and undermine efforts to address the underlying conditions driving migration to the United States .
Reinstate the National Climate Assessment Advisory Committee to immediately start addressing the climate crisis . The National Climate Assessment Advisory Committee was charged with translating the findings of the National Climate Assessment into concrete goals . Senator Klobuchar will reinstate this committee that President Trump let expire .
hello everyone welcome America to boom I learn where are we now we don ' t let a little snow stop us we don ' t let a little cold stop us like are you guys even called tell the truth now when I said that elected leaders should go not just where it ' s comfortable but also where it ' s
And more recently , the antitrust division successfully litigated two mega mergers in the insurance industry , including Anthem and Cigna . Chairman Mike Lee and I held an Antitrust Subcommittee hearing on the effects of these mergers on consumers .
Just look at South Korea . There , the President was recently impeached based — in part — on allegations that she participated in a bribery scheme that ordered government support of a merger .
kids all across the country that said no not going to take this anymore the moms tried after Sandy Hook law enforcement tried everyone ' s tried and guess what guys after those kids March they didn ' t just March they voted and we get bested by a bunch of seventeen year olds to get common - sense gun legislation in place that ' s a right thing to do that ' s what ' s happened in this country and then you go to 2018 we ' re all of you stood and we work together I was leading our ticket
As Minnesota ’ s U . S . senator , I will continue to focus on these priorities :
day a big bridge collapsed into this river I said on that day that a bridge just shouldn ' t fall down in the middle of America not one of the busiest bridges in our state not a bridge just a few blocks from our home where John and Abigail and I drove over nearly every day but it happened and suddenly the eyes of the nation were on our state that day America saw in a very visceral way that everyone matters everyone they saw it in that off - duty firefighter who
But , in fact , without antitrust law , MCI would never have worked .
Even as our economy stabilizes and grows stronger , it ’ s easy to see why people feel that way .
Support agricultural research . The Trump Administration has repeatedly proposed budgets for USDA that cut billions for rural development , conservation , and research . These include the forced closure of agricultural research laboratories and stations . Senator Klobuchar will give these important programs the support they deserve .
Combat segregation in housing . Senator Klobuchar will suspend Housing and Urban Development Secretary Carson ’ s proposed changes to the Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing rule , which would weaken efforts to combat segregation in housing policy .
Strengthening our cybersecurity . Modern warfare is evolving to target cyber networks . Countries like Russia , North Korea , China , and Iran have engaged in cyber warfare that targets U . S . networks . Enhancing our country ’ s cybersecurity to ensure that hackers cannot access our public and private networks is essential . In recent years , cybersecurity breaches have affected our government , our businesses and consumers alike . It is more important than ever that we take steps to strengthen our nation ’ s cyber security . Since I came to Congress , I have worked to provide the Department of Defense and our law enforcement agencies with the tools they need to strengthen our cybersecurity posture . In the 21 st century , our adversaries will continue to use cyberwarfare against our democracy and we need to be prepared to defend our networks against the growing threat of cyber intrusion intended to impact our nation ’ s critical infrastructure , information systems and elections .
dictates of your conscience for me that time is now and II refused to stand by as Donald Trump took his country and really his party in the wrong direction and he said Americans of all parties should insist on something far better from the man holding the highest office in the land so that ' s what this is about today this is about people deciding that they want something better that they deserve something better in our country that we
In the midst of turbulent times abroad , we must remain vigilant in deterring hostile nations and pursuing terrorist networks intent on harming our country . We must also identify and limit vulnerabilities within our borders , ports , and critical infrastructure . As an ever - shrinking global community and advancements in technology draw both our friends and our enemies closer , we must maintain our focus and commitment to protecting our national security . Protecting our nation means strengthening alliances with friendly nations and presenting a united front against adversaries , particularly those that sponsor or condone terrorist activities .
servant she went through all the challenges she went through everything and then she went through every single thing she gotten done in such a caring way for the community I ' m not kidding I thought well if Liz can do that I could do anything and so and I ' m gonna read something about Liz written by someone knows her best her daughter listen to this yeah you didn ' t think this was gonna be about you but it is because this is important what I ' m
Since annexing Crimea , Russia has become even more emboldened and aggressive . Despite a fragile ceasefire in Ukraine , the Russian military maintains a significant presence in eastern Ukraine . Russia has conducted cyberattacks on U . S . computer systems and provides weapons to Iran and Syria . Our commitment to NATO is more important than ever . Our allies and adversaries around the world need to know that we will stand together to protect each other against military aggression . If President Putin continues to ignore international law and engage in hostile behavior , we must continue to escalate political and economic pressure on his regime and reinforce the global coalition against Russian aggression .
Since coming to the Senate , I have fought to make America more secure by :
Reopen and expand the Office for Access to Justice . Senator Klobuchar will reopen and expand the Office for Access to Justice , which makes access to legal aid more accessible to people and has the stated goal of making sure the justice system delivers outcomes that are fair and accessible to all , irrespective of wealth or status .
byron Dorgan we had this band playing and then we got on the bus and we sat down and byron Dorgan turned to me and he goes you know what this is all really fun now it was a week before the election three months from now you ' re gonna be sitting inside your office reading a bill that you don ' t understand eating a tuna fish sandwich hey guys so remember this moment but this is just so exciting and I think you all know we ' re gonna be going on this twelve County
can do so much better than this and that ' s why for this olive America tour we are going to cities yes we are starting the tour and making you guys sit outside at in the morning on a cold day because we have so much work to do we are gonna go to rural areas and small towns and we are reaching out to our fire Democratic base and you know they are fired up but we are also are also reaching out to independence and to moderate Republicans and we kind of have
Shine a light on the corporate dark money spending . Senator Klobuchar will shine a light on the dark money by requiring publicly traded companies to disclose all political spending over $ 10 , 000 to their shareholders .
voters voted for Barack Obama that ' s a true fact so when I was out in those states I told them this we ' re gonna build a blue wall around those states and we ' re gonna make Donald Trump pay for it because I have talked to these voters the rancher in Minnesota who told me last summer that he had voted for Donald Trump because he was mad about a few things and he was in his house and he didn ' t look like someone was gonna start to cry a lot of these people when
Some can ’ t afford to pay their mortgage , much less prescription drugs or the cost of internet service . An increasingly specialized workforce can make it hard to find a job . Too many people who dream of starting their own businesses do not qualify for a loan or can ’ t afford to take that risk .
Strengthen prosecution of white - collar criminals . Senator Klobuchar will direct the Attorney General to issue a memorandum to federal prosecutors to strengthen prosecution efforts for individuals who are personally responsible for white - collar , corporate crime and tax fraud .
Update the standards for reviewing both horizontal and vertical mergers to ensure vigorous antitrust enforcement . To tackle unprecedented consolidation and monopoly power , Senator Klobuchar will direct the Department of Justice to update its guidelines to ensure vigorous and aggressive enforcement of our antitrust laws .
Helping Minnesota businesses get access to the Cuban market . Improving relations with Cuba is something that I ’ ve been working on with people from all across our state . Increasing travel and commerce between our two countries will create new economic opportunities for American farmers and businesses and help improve the quality of life of Cubans . The Minnesota Department of Agriculture has estimated that exports to Cuba would nearly double if the embargo were lifted , putting total farm exports at between $ 40 - 50 million per year . That is why I have introduced the bipartisan Freedom to Export to Cuba Act . My legislation lifts the trade embargo and knocks down the legal barriers to Americans doing business in Cuba . My bill would help open up new economic opportunities for American businesses and farmers by boosting U . S . exports and would also help improve the lives of everyday Cubans by allowing them greater access to American products and services . I have successfully pressed U . S . Customs and Border Protection to allow direct flights between Minnesota and Cuba . I also convened a summit in Minnesota focused on ways to improve U . S .- Cuba relations and testified before the International Trade Commission to highlight the economic benefits of boosting American exports to Cuba .
Put rules in place to prevent pay discrimination . The Trump Administration has tried to block rules that require large companies to disclose what they pay employees by sex , race , and ethnicity in an effort to prevent pay discrimination . Senator Klobuchar will end the Trump Administration ’ s legal efforts to prevent the rule from taking effect .
We also have to make it easier for veterans to make appointments with their doctors . A June 2014 internal audit by the Department of Veterans Affairs ( VA ) found that more than 120 , 000 veterans waited at least 90 days for appointments for healthcare or never received appointments at all . Excessive wait times can put veterans ’ lives at risk , but technology that makes it easier to schedule appointments already exists and is being used in the private sector . In response , I introduced the Faster Care for Veterans Act , a bipartisan bill that was signed into law in 2016 that has created a pilot program at the VA for veterans to schedule their medical appointments online without unnecessary red tape and delays . The pilot is currently ongoing at the Minneapolis VA Health Care System .
Make a plan to connect every household to the internet by 2022 . Senator Klobuchar will work to close the rural - urban divide by connecting every household to the internet by 2022 . This means directing federal support to close the last mile gap , overhauling broadband coverage mapping so areas that need support receive federal funds , and encouraging public - private partnerships in the areas of greatest need .
Supporting Israel . America and Israel are close allies whose interests in the Middle East and around the world remain strongly aligned . The deep and enduring friendship between our nations is based on values rooted in democracy and mutual strategic goals , and we must remain steadfast in our commitment to Israel ’ s security . That ’ s why I have strongly supported funding for security assistance to Israel , particularly for the Iron Dome missile defense system and the Memorandum of Understanding signed in 2016 that committed $ 38 billion in military aid to Israel over ten years . I have consistently supported additional funds in order to bolster this program . In 2017 , I was one of the first cosponsors of a bipartisan resolution objecting to the United Nations efforts to undermine direct negotiations between Israel and Palestinians for a secure and peaceful settlement . I also joined 97 of my Senate colleagues in voting for the authorization of additional sanctions against Iran .
Protecting our Environment and Natural Resources
Care for Our Troops
They want common - sense solutions . That ’ s why I ’ m leading the charge in the Senate to lower prescription drug costs . That ’ s why I ’ m working to expand services like career planning , job training , transitional jobs and apprenticeships . And that ’ s why I am fighting to strengthen the rural economy , which includes everything from tackling poverty and affordable housing to supporting farmers and expanding access to broadband .
Promoting domestic energy production . Over the past few years , U . S . oil production has surpassed that of Saudi Arabia . Through a combination of U . S . oil and natural gas production , renewable energy sources like wind power , solar , and biofuels , and increased gas mileage standards that I supported , the United States has the opportunity to continue to reduce its reliance on foreign oil and approach energy independence . I successfully included legislation in the 2008 and 2014 Farm Bills providing incentives for U . S . farmers to grow the next generation of biofuel crops . I have also urged the Administration to support biofuels infrastructure development and have pushed for strong renewable energy and energy efficiency standards . I have also supported efforts to promote the use of renewable fuels in military installations to sustain the long - term capabilities of our forces .
Demanding accountability for American taxpayer funds . The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan revealed disturbing revelations that billions of dollars in American taxpayer money was lost to corruption , fraud , and waste . There must be accountability for reconstruction funds that are intended to provide the Iraqi and Afghan people with the meaningful economic assistance they need to rebuild their respective countries . Illegal and unethical practices not only undermine reconstruction efforts – they hurt our troops in the field and impair their ability to carry out critical missions . When I first came to the Senate , I cosponsored a bipartisan provision in the Defense Authorization bill that established an independent commission to increase transparency and accountability in wartime contracting . The commission , modeled after the famous Truman Commission during World War II , helps to ensure accountability for U . S . tax dollars spent in Iraq and Afghanistan . I have also repeatedly voted to cut funding for programs the Defense Department has found to be unnecessary to ensure our defense budget is focused on the programs and technologies we need to strengthen our Armed Forces .
Invest in the Veterans Health Administration . Expanding access to private care cannot come at the expense of fully funding and even expanding the current Veterans Health Administration ( VHA ) infrastructure . Senator Klobuchar will direct the VHA to use data on private care usage only as a means to help guide investments in its own growth , not as a way to further privatize its core functions .
Crack down on gun manufacturers and dealers that break the law . Senator Klobuchar will increase inspections and strengthen enforcement to crack down on gun manufacturers and sellers that violate the law .
union member taught taught second grade in the suburbs until she was 70 years old her students now grown still come up to me on the street and tell me she was their favorite teacher so today on an island in the middle of the mighty Mississippi in our nation ' s heartland at a time when we must heal the heart of our democracy and renew our commitment to the common good I stand before you as the granddaughter of an iron ore miner as the daughter of a
said mom I don ' t want to go home you said we could eat out for dinner tonight I don ' t want to eat dinner at home you think of the innocent words of that little girl she only knows one home and that ' s our state she only knows one home and that ' s the United States of America Walt Whitman the great American poet once wrote these words I hear America singing the varied carols I hear for Whitman those were the songs of the mechanics the carpenters the Masons the
Increasing the security of our nation ’ s transportation networks . The 9 / 11 Commission Act included measures to improve rail and aviation security across the nation . I also worked with the Transportation Security Administration and the Department of Homeland Security to implement the Secure Flight program , which modernizes and improves security – and makes it more efficient – before travelers even get to the airport . The program also strengthens our ability to identify and prevent potential threats , while reducing delays and inconveniences to American travelers caused by terrorist watch list misidentifications . I also helped bring additional security resources and personnel to our airports , including more canine teams at the Minneapolis - St . Paul airport that help keep our airport safe and decrease wait times at security checkpoints . In 2012 I introduced the No - Hassle Flying Act which increases security by encouraging foreign airports to enhance their baggage screening equipment and helps increase efficiency and the passenger experience by eliminating the need to have bags re - screened here in the U . S . The bill was signed into law in 2012 . TSA reported that the cost savings realized from the increased efficiency resulting from the bill was over $ 1 million annually .
Extending home energy tax credits , weatherization , heating assistance , and energy efficient products . The Weatherization Assistance Program is an important tool in reducing home energy costs . According to the National Association for State Community Services Programs , for every dollar spent , the Weatherization Program returns $ 2 . 72 in energy and non - energy benefits over the life of the weatherized home .
Prioritize mental health and addiction . Senator Klobuchar will take immediate action to combat substance use disorders and prioritize mental health , including launching new prevention and early intervention initiatives , expanding access to treatment , enforcing mental health parity laws , and giving Americans a path to sustainable recovery . This includes addressing workforce shortages for nurses , psychiatrists and other mental health professionals in many areas of the country and it means addressing the lack of hospital services and treatment beds .
with our allies we need to be clear in our purpose we must respect our frontline troops diplomats and intelligence officers who are there every day risking their lives for us they deserve better than foreign policy by tweet and one last obstacle that we must overcome to move forward together stop the fear - mongering and stop the hate we may come from different places we may pray in different ways we may look
Restore oversight to eliminate discriminatory lending practices . Senator Klobuchar will direct financial regulators to restore Community Reinvestment Act protections , develop policies to encourage financial institutions to make loans and investment in local communities , especially communities in need , and conduct greater outreach to assess the true credit needs of certain areas .
This year , I ’ ve been to twenty rural counties in my home state over just the past month . And I can tell you – people are still struggling . They are wary . And growing even more so during this huge transition in Washington .
Propose a bold infrastructure plan to rebuild America and re - establish the Presidential Advisory Council on Infrastructure . The Presidential Advisory Council on Infrastructure was intended to provide the federal government with expertise from key sectors on infrastructure policy , but President Trump disbanded the council . Senator Klobuchar will reinstate the council to execute her first budget proposal : a bold , comprehensive infrastructure plan . This trillion - dollar investment includes repairing and replacing our roads , highways and bridges , building smart climate infrastructure , ensuring clean water , modernizing our airports , seaports and inland waterways , expanding reliable public transit options , rebuilding our schools , and overhauling our country ’ s housing policy . The plan will be paid for by changes to the tax code including adjustments to the corporate tax rate .
After that meeting , I asked Attorney General Sessions if he would defend the integrity and independence of the Antitrust Division . He said that he would , and I will hold him to that commitment .
much better than sixty - four public mental health beds for the state of Iowa which is where you are stuck right now that ' s what this is about this is about getting these things done and that is the difference between a plan and a pipe dream right we want to bring down the cost of pharmaceutical we have to it ' s the number one issue for people for healthcare and when you look at my record as Liz mentioned when you look at
Reopen international U . S . Citizenship and Immigration Services offices . The Trump Administration is shutting down international USCIS offices — which deal primarily with international adoptions , family visa applications , petitions for citizenship for military members stationed in foreign countries , and citizenship applications , along with help on refugee processing and investigations of fraud . Senator Klobuchar will direct USCIS to reopen its international offices .
Increasing energy efficiency . As former Energy Secretary Steven Chu noted , improving efficiency in vehicles , buildings , and appliances isn ’ t just the “ low - hanging fruit ” – it ’ s the fruit that ’ s rolling on the ground . Promoting energy efficiency is good for business , good for consumers , and good for our economy . One example is my Nonprofit Energy Efficiency Act that I ’ ve worked on with Senator Hoeven from North Dakota . The bill empowers the nonprofit community to make energy - efficiency improvements and help both our environment and our local communities by promoting greater energy savings and efficiency .
to the Twin Cities and then to Wisconsin where my mom was born and then down to Iowa a place where we in Minnesota like to go south for the winter or at least I do and then to Illinois a state that boasts a lot of extraordinary presidents from Abraham Lincoln to Barack Obama then that river meanders down to st . Louis well you ' ll find a big arch a gateway that honors our country ' s pioneers
Restore freedom to travel to and trade with Cuba . Fifty years of an embargo have not achieved America ’ s policy objectives in Cuba . Senator Klobuchar believes that a better path forward would allow Americans the freedom to travel and conduct business there and that lifting the trade embargo will open a huge export market , create American jobs , and support both the Cuban and American economies . She will revive policies to expand the ability of Americans to travel to Cuba and facilitate U . S . exports to the island using credit to the maximum extent allowed by current law while respecting human rights and property claims against the Cuban government .
Helping our farmers move to the next generation of farm - based biofuels . I have taken the lead in promoting the next generation of biofuel crops through my work on the Senate Agriculture Committee . I successfully included legislation in the 2008 Farm Bill to provide incentives for U . S . farmers to produce cellulosic ethanol made from dedicated energy crops like prairie grass and alfalfa and from agricultural residues and wood chips . I also introduced the Farm - to - Fuel Investment Act , which was included in the energy title of the 2008 Farm Bill , and fought to include a strong energy title in the 2014 and 2018 Farm Bills to expand homegrown renewable energy production . These bills provide incentives to produce ethanol made from Minnesota - based biomass and spur innovation that will support the development of third - generation biofuels that will provide our country with an alternative motor fuel , protect our soil and water quality , and provide new wildlife habitats . And I ’ m fighting for funding for the energy title , including strong funding for the Rural Energy for America Program ( REAP ), in the Farm Bill reauthorization .
Hold for - profit colleges accountable if they put profits above students . The Trump Administration has repeatedly delayed rules requiring vocational programs at for - profit higher education institutions to show that they provide gainful employment for their students . Senator Klobuchar will hold for - profit colleges accountable if they put profits above students by ensuring that these protections are in place .
I propose two simple fixes here . First , while we will take into account the burden on smaller companies , the fees should increase based on gross national product . Second , in an era of megadeals that reach tens or even hundreds of billions of dollars , we need a new category of fees that reflects the complexities of mega - mergers and their serious impacts on consumers .
I oppose efforts to privatize the VA , and I will continue to fight to ensure that our veterans are getting the support and care they need and deserve and that VA employees responsible for mismanagement or mistreatment of veterans are held accountable . I pressed the VA Inspector General ’ s office to ensure that all allegations of improper practices at Minnesota VA facilities are fully investigated . I also supported the bipartisan Veterans Access , Choice , and Accountability Act ( VACAA ), which increased funding available for the VA to hire medical professionals , expanded flexibility for veterans to seek care at non - VA facilities , and created an expedited process for the VA to terminate or demote senior executives . I cosponsored legislation to improve the effectiveness of VACAA by ensuring that veterans who live more than 40 miles driving distance from a VA facility can receive care from a non - VA provider , which led the VA to adopt this policy in February 2015 . I will continue to work to improve the implementation of VACAA and push for changes like those in the Caring for Our Veterans Act to ensure the VA works for Minnesota veterans . That includes holding the VA and contractors accountable for the services they provide to veterans .
Second , better information .
Expanding the Beyond the Yellow Ribbon program . This program , pioneered by the Minnesota National Guard , helps soldiers make the transition from military to civilian life through counseling and other services . Since 2007 , we have been able to secure regular funding through Defense Appropriations bills to extend and expand this program in Minnesota . In addition , we passed legislation to create and fund a national Yellow Ribbon program based on Minnesota ' s groundbreaking initiative .
to overturn citizens united and get the dark money out of our politics it is time to stop discriminatory actions by restoring the Voting Rights Act it is time to pass my bill to automatically register every young person to vote when they turn 18 you see the obstacles that they ' re throwing at us with big money and limits on voting their obstacles but they ' re also our path they are how as Paul Wellstone would tell us they are how we
Prioritize health care delivery system reform to reduce health care costs . Senator Klobuchar will immediately identify value - based delivery system reforms , including in Medicare and Medicaid , and she will create incentives for employers and insurers to expand new payment models .
I keep claiming she wore these green shamrock sweat pants and she keeps telling me they were jeans but anyway she she was you could just see the love from her constituents when you march in the parade as well as of course Rob very incredible an incredible incredible leader for this town in this community ahead of his time on issues of climate change then we have Liz a true public servant and yeah yeah but let ' s just talk about Liz for a second actually so
path here ' s another challenge way too many politicians have their heads stuck in the sand when it comes to the digital revolution hey guys it ' s not just coming it ' s here and if you don ' t know the difference between a hack and slack it ' s time to pull off the digital highway what would I do what would I do as president we need to put some digital rules of the road into law when it comes to people ' s privacy for too long the big tech companies have been telling you
If that was too technical for you , how about beer ?
If it appears that political concerns have played a role in antitrust enforcement , the Subcommittee can and will hold the agencies accountable .
Since coming to the Senate , I have fought for new energy policies and strong measures to protect our environment and natural resources :
Second , in 1988 , he paid a $ 750 , 000 penalty to settle claims that he had failed to make required filings with the FTC and DOJ in connection with an acquisition of stock in Holiday Corp and Bally Manufacturing .
Here ’ s another example . In a typical administration , the enforcement decisions of the Assistant Attorney General for Antitrust are made independently — the White House is typically not involved .
background checks an assault weapon ban and magazines it ' s been unbelievable and I told them all the story of when I sat across from the president after parkland advocated for gun safety nine times he said he wanted universal background checks and then the next day he goes and meets with the NRA and he folds as your I will not fold an economic agenda for this country should unite rural and urban and that is why I have been out there talking about yes the farm bill
End the family separation policy . Senator Klobuchar will issue an Executive Order putting an immediate end to the cruel and inhumane policy where the government is taking kids away from their parents and ensuring children are reunited with their parents without delay . She will also reverse this administration ’ s attempt to overrule the Flores Settlement Agreement , which prevents prolonged detention of children and prevents children from being detained in inhumane conditions by requiring basic levels of food , water and health care .
Global Health Response . The spread of viruses like Ebola and Zika threaten our national security . The best way to stop the spread of dangerous viruses is to address the outbreaks at the source . I fought to get more than $ 5 billion in funding to fight the Ebola outbreak in West Africa , including more significant investments in humanitarian aid and assistance to improve health care infrastructure . I also pushed for an immediate response to the Zika virus in the United States . As Chair of the Senate Steering and Outreach Committee , I brought together leading medical experts , public health officials from across the country , and other senators to discuss the need for congressional action on President Obama ’ s emergency funding request to control the spread of the Zika virus . I also hosted a roundtable discussion at the University of Minnesota with local and national leaders to discuss Zika educational and outreach efforts in Minnesota and federal efforts to support local prevention measures and research . The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention awarded $ 200 , 000 to Minnesota for Zika detection and preparedness .
It is good to be here with this distinguished panel .
citizens so I can promise you this Iowa I ' m going to restore that trust and I ' m going to be one of those ordinary people that does extraordinary things but I ' m not going to be able to do it without you so let ' s get on this bus and let ' s make this case to the people and that is how we win
Since coming to the Senate , I have worked to make sure that veterans who have risked their lives for our freedom and security have the resources they need and deserve :
Promote net neutrality . Senator Klobuchar will use federal contracting requirements to encourage broadband providers to honor net neutrality principles and promote a free and open internet .
The FTC had six antitrust cases in active litigation last year , including blocking Staples ’ s proposed acquisition of Office Depot and four hospitals mergers .
Protecting our nation from those who would do us harm is the first and most important responsibility of Congress .
Since 9 / 11 , 31 , 000 servicemembers have been discharged after being diagnosed with personality disorders , which denies them the right to Veterans Administration ( VA ) healthcare or benefits . In reality , many of those servicemembers may not have been properly diagnosed by a mental health expert and may be suffering from service - connected Post Traumatic Stress Disorder ( PTSD ). In March of 2013 I worked with Senator Jon Tester of Montana to introduce the Servicemember Mental Health Review Act , which helps these veterans who may have been discharged with improper mental health diagnoses get their records corrected and their benefits restored . I also included an amendment in the FY 2014 NDAA to require the Government Accountability Office ( GAO ) to assess the Department of Defense ’ s ( DOD ) compliance with its own regulations for discharging servicemembers for mental health reasons , and I supported the successful effort to repeal the cut to military retiree pensions that was made in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 .
do it in Iceland we can do it here we need to train our workers today for the jobs of tomorrow and strengthen our economy by planning ahead that means respecting and recognizing educational certifications and two - year degrees and making it easier for people to get them and yes and yes that means comprehensive immigration reform it is time America and by the way we should close those tax loopholes designed by and for the wealthy and bring down our debt and make
that means funding Planned Parenthood and that means standing up against someone I mean this guy thinks a doctor shouldn ' t be making your decisions and working with you he thinks he should we stand up against that we also stand up against racial inequality and for civil liberties in this country and that means not just the first step back but the second step back and finally immigration reform I am so tired of hearing him talk about immigration the way he does
Ensuring all service members and veterans get the benefits they have earned . In the summer of 2007 , members of the Minnesota National Guard ’ s 1 / 34 th Brigade Combat Team returned home from Iraq after serving the longest continuous deployment of any unit in the Iraq war only to learn that , due to government red tape , many were not able to receive the full pay or educational benefits their service merited . We successfully cut through the red tape to deliver the full educational benefits these soldiers had earned .
Antitrust enforcement affects more than the prices people pay for the goods they buy .
By harnessing our homegrown energy potential and preserving the natural resources that make Minnesota such a special place for everyone , our state can continue to be a shining example for the rest of the country , showing that strong energy and environmental policies can go hand - in hand with a strong economy .
Expanding job opportunities for our veterans . The men and women who have served our country in uniform should not return from war only to face another battle finding a job . We need to focus on building job opportunities for returning servicemembers by making sure skills developed during their service transfer to the private sector and by improving training and hiring incentives to ensure that veterans transition smoothly into civilian employment . I also believe Guard and Reserve members and their families should not suffer as a result of their willingness to respond to emergencies , and employers should be rewarded for maintaining their commitment to these brave men and women who answer the call to duty .
Provide Americans a strong taxpayer advocate . The IRS Taxpayer Advocate exists to help taxpayers navigate tax laws and serve as an ally when Americans need to engage with IRS representatives . But the Trump Administration refused to designate the Taxpayer Advocate Service an “ essential service ,” forcing it to close shop during the government shutdown and leaving taxpayers without a crucial ally . Senator Klobuchar will designate the IRS an essential service so taxpayers have continued access to this support and advocacy .
Expanding our nation ’ s wilderness areas . I pushed for passage of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 that constituted the largest expansion of our nation ’ s wilderness in 15 years . Through this legislation , we protected two million more acres of national Wilderness Areas and more than 1 , 000 miles of national Wild and Scenic Rivers . I have also cosponsored legislation to fully fund the Land and Water Conservation Fund ( LWCF ) and have worked to expand service - learning opportunities that help restore America ’ s natural , recreational , and scenic resources . I strongly oppose this Administration ’ s proposed budget cuts to the LWCF and the Department of the Interior . These cuts hurt rural communities and the protection of our public parks and lands .
All of this can be done . It doesn ’ t take a miracle . It just simply takes the will and the system that we have used so well in America — a system of free market , a system of checks and balances , a system where we put people first .
organizing background so my grandpa has was mentioned work 1 , 500 feet underground in the mines up in Ely Minnesota the iron ore mines his whole life he never got to graduate from high school he helped raise his younger brothers and sisters he married my grandma had two boys one was my dad and my grandpa saved money in a coffee can to send my dad to a your Community College from there my dad got his journalism degree at the
Provide incentives for employers to adopt paid family leave and child care benefits . Senator Klobuchar will reward federal contractors by providing additional points during the contract bidding process if contractors offer paid family leave to their employees or child care benefits .
Consider gun violence as a public health issue in CDC studies . Senator Klobuchar will direct the CDC to study gun violence as a public health issue and help identify approaches to reduce gun violence and save lives .
Modernizing our relationship with Cuba . Revamping our approach to North America also includes modernizing our relationship with Cuba . I strongly support lifting the embargo and travel ban on Cuba . Increasing travel and commerce between our two countries will create new economic opportunities for American farmers and businesses and help improve the quality of life for Cubans . Our policies toward Cuba should emphasize our economic interests in expanded commerce and travel and our political interest in cultivating new freedoms for the Cuban people . More than fifty years of the embargo have not secured these interests — it is time for us to try another approach . That is why I have introduced the bipartisan Freedom to Export to Cuba Act , which would eliminate the legal barriers to Americans doing business in Cuba , boosting job creation and exports . It does not repeal provisions of current law that address human rights in Cuba or that allow individuals and businesses to pursue claims against the Cuban government .
In decades past , veterans like my father could count on their government to stand by them . After World War II , our government adopted the GI Bill to provide health , housing , and educational benefits . Just as we did then , we have a responsibility now to ensure fair compensation policies , full education benefits , and the healthcare that our veterans and their families deserve .
Strengthening support for survivors of military sexual assault . According to the Department of Defense ’ s own records more than 14 , 900 service members were sexually assaulted in 2016 . The Defense Department has found that about one in three military women has been sexually assaulted , a rate twice as high as that among civilians . This is unacceptable . Sexual assault not only harms the victim , but also weakens unit morale and readiness . We must take steps to ensure protection and justice for the men and women who risk their lives to defend our country .
right like a foot of snow coming on my head and after I did that the president took me on on climate change in one of his tweets and he actually called me snow woman and you know what I said to him I wrote back I ' d like to see how your hair would fare in a blizzard mr . umbrella man so I chose that place to announce my candidacy on that Mississippi River because I want to make the point that it is time for us to cross the river of our divides to take
Now , I know that antitrust law might not make front page news or even capture the attention of all of our nation ’ s lawmakers . But this is important stuff . And consequential stuff , too .
Supporting our Ally Canada . A common border connects the United States and Canada , but our common values and ambitions are the true foundations of the unparalleled friendship between our two nations . As co - chair of the U . S . Interparliamentary Group , I have had the honor of leading delegations of U . S . senators to the annual Canada - U . S . meetings to discuss common issues and challenges our two nations face . We are stronger and more secure when we stand together with Canada .
Responding to global food and water shortages , environmental and climate change challenges , and national disasters . As the global population continues to grow , so will the demand for essential resources , including food and water supplies . The unpredictable effects of climate change could lead to more global instability due to rising poverty , mass migrations , increased border tensions , and greater demands for rescue and recovery efforts . It is our obligation to help those who lack access to stable food and water supplies . We must take steps to combat global climate change and also be prepared to respond to natural disasters , both at home and around the world .
so much Wow I cannot think of a better group to be up here with and I am so excited to be here and excited about our bus that is great I remember once when I first had a bus on my first Senate race and it was this big kickoff at the University of Minnesota was not outside which you guys are so brave in the spirit of my snow field announcement but I remember it and I remember it was just it was an Al Gore was there and the center from North Dakota at the time
Ensure funding for Planned Parenthood , end the global and domestic gag rules , and restore the Title X program . Senator Klobuchar will reverse the Trump Administration ’ s decision to change the Title X program to ban health providers like Planned Parenthood from receiving funding under Title X . She will end the global and domestic gag rules , and she will fight for legislation that codifies Roe v . Wade and protects women ’ s reproductive rights
Lift the ban preventing qualified transgender people from serving in the military and restore protections for the LGBTQ community . Senator Klobuchar will direct the Department of Defense to lift the ban on military service by transgender people . She will reverse the harmful anti - LGBTQ administrative actions taken by the Trump Administration when it comes to education , health care and civil rights , and she will work to pass the Equality Act in year one of her presidency .
MCI ’ s scrappy lawyers viewed themselves as cowboys of sorts , fighting for consumers and lower prices , and taking on local telephone monopolies around the country . And that was good training for Washington , which right now feels like the wild , wild West on a daily basis -- strike that , on an hourly basis .
the world and save people from starvation you led with Edna Griffin who took on where I began in the middle of that River in the middle of that snowstorm with four inches of snow on my head and the reason I picked that place is that it was only a mile away before that 35 w bridge collapse in the middle of a beautiful and as I said the next day a breach does just doesn ' t fall down in the middle of
when he said there are two sides remember that we said no when the other side is a Ku Klux Klan there are not two sides there ' s only one side and that is the American side that is all of a mirror all of America also means the people that I met with when I went to those blue wall states right when I met with those carpenters in Pittsburgh when I met with the dock workers in Michigan when I met with the dairy farmers in
there it was taught at the University of Minnesota and then when I got there I realized that was the only one from Minnesota there and it was like Tom Harkin and the whole Iowa delegation they were all there and I realized he had one little Minnesota thing like a ring or something on the statue that ' s when I realized that truth okay let ' s start over with the dramatic moment okay you led with the Granger movement
Strengthen minimum wage enforcement efforts . Senator Klobuchar will strengthen enforcement and expand investigations to make sure that are wage laws are properly enforced and that workers are able to recover back pay when the government rules in their favor .
my record you see someone that has actually gotten things done that ' s taken on this problem I passed one of the few bills actually that we got done on prescription drugs and that was to get at prescription drugs shortages of things like kids cancer drugs but I lead the bell on unleashing the power of 43 million seniors so we can finally bring down the cost of prescription drugs under Medicare there is a ban on negotiating drug prices under Medicare
many gun owners to stand up to the gun lobby and put universal background checks and and common - sense gun legislation into law it is time America and a safer world isn ' t just about what we do here at home even if you want to isolate yourself from the rest of the world the rest of the world won ' t let you international problems come banging at your door just as opportunities come knocking we need to stand strong and consistently
Prioritize LGBTQ antidiscrimination policies across the federal government to address homelessness , suicide and access to life - saving drugs . Senator Klobuchar will expand efforts to reduce LGBTQ homelessness , address LGBTQ suicide rates , and increase access to PrEP . She will create an office of LGBTQ Antidiscrimination within the White House Domestic Policy Council to coordinate these efforts across federal agencies .
Reverse the Attorney General ’ s memo directing federal prosecutors to seek the most severe penalties in all cases . Senator Klobuchar would reverse former Attorney General Jeff Sessions ’ s memo limiting federal prosecutors discretion and requiring them to seek the most severe penalties possible in all cases . She will also restore the Smart on Crime initiative , which had been hailed as a positive step forward in rehabilitating drug users by focusing on more serious drug cases and fewer indictments carrying mandatory minimums . Senator Klobuchar will start the evaluation process to reschedule marijuana , collecting the required scientific and medical evaluations and recommendations .
we won in Wisconsin and beat Scott Walker that anti - union activist we did that so you look at this March you look at the arc of the moral universe where we are headed as long as we stay together and we organize and we beat out that organized hate with organized people we will win in 2020 together thank you everyone
End “ pay for delay ” agreements that increase the cost of prescription drugs . Senator Klobuchar will take aggressive action to crack down on drug companies that are — in effect — paying the makers of generic drugs to delay cheaper versions of drugs from getting into the market .
Increasing energy efficiency . I introduced the Nonprofit Energy Efficiency Act with Senator John Hoeven . This bipartisan bill empowers the nonprofit community to make energy - efficiency improvements to their buildings and offices , which helps our nonprofits save money through greater energy efficiency and helps the community . I also worked with Senator Hoeven to pass water heater efficiency legislation that enables rural electric power cooperatives and their members to continue to use energy - efficient water heaters in “ demand response ” conservation programs . This will allow cooperatives to optimize both their own energy management and the environmental benefits of these water heaters . I have also introduced a bipartisan bill with Senator Tillis that would direct the Federal Trade Commission to consider including Smart Grid capability on Energy Guide labels for products .
Restore national monuments . Senator Klobuchar will restore the boundaries of Bears Ears National Monument and Grand Staircase - Escalante National Monument to protect their ecological and the tribal cultural significance and undertake a review of other boundary adjustment and management changes initiated by the Trump Administration .
Seizing the opportunity for a new day in North America . By working together , we in the United States , Canada , and Mexico can improve our ability as a region to compete in the world economy and to enhance our collective security . Together , the three largest countries on the continent are strong democracies with a combined population of 490 million people , increasingly integrated economies worth nearly $ 20 trillion that produce almost 30 percent of global goods and services , a secure international position , and the potential for achieving continent - wide energy independence . This was the vision put forward at the North American Leaders ’ Summit in Toluca in February 2014 , and it is one that we should continue to embrace . This would include developing a North American competitiveness agenda focused on fair trade , increasing cross - border investment , innovation , and private sector integration , as well as improving coordination on regulatory practices , border management , and energy . Together , North America can more effectively export its products to new and emerging markets in Asia , South America , and Africa . As one of the heads of the Canadian / American Interparliamentary group , I strongly supported including Canada in the Administration ’ s trade negotiations and opposed their efforts to exclude them .
This was an uncharacteristic discussion and raises concerns that this President may want to negotiate merger settlements himself .
Curtail arms transfers and other support for the war in Yemen . Saudi and UAE military operations in Yemen have killed thousands of civilians and contributed to a humanitarian crisis that has left millions displaced and starving . The conflict shows no signs of ending , but the Trump Administration continues to go to extraordinary lengths to provide weapons and other support to Saudi Arabia and the UAE , including circumventing the standard Congressional approval processes . Senator Klobuchar will order a stop to arms transfers and support to the Saudi and Emirati forces until a negotiated settlement to the conflict is achieved .
Many who serve in our military receive emergency medical training as part of their duties . These servicemembers return home with valuable skills and the need for good jobs . In order to help address veteran ’ s unemployment and reduce the shortage of much - needed emergency medical personnel in rural communities , I introduced the bipartisan Veterans to Paramedics Transition Act , which became law in August 2016 . This legislation will help veterans earn professional certification by streamlining civilian paramedic training for returning veterans who already have emergency medical experience from their military service . I have also supported legislation to accelerate commercial driver ’ s licensing procedures for veterans who received driving experience in the military , as well as legislation to provide a tax credit to military spouses to cover their re - credentialing costs when they must move to a new state for their spouse ’ s military service . In addition , I introduced legislation that was signed into law in June 2017 to encourage law enforcement agencies to hire veterans . The American Law Enforcement Heroes Act prioritizes the Department of Justice Community Oriented Policing Services ( COPS ) grant applications of state and local law enforcement agencies that use that funding to hire veterans .
Support for foreign aid and keeping the State Department strong . Helping our friends and allies is not only the right thing to do , but the smart thing to do . Foreign aid is critical to helping address refugee crises , preventing radicalization and promoting stability around the world . The United States has a long and proud tradition of providing life - saving humanitarian assistance . We must continue to provide that assistance and maintain our standing in the world as a nation that comes to the aid of those in need . We must also provide the resources necessary for our Foreign Service and State Department to do their work as the civilian face of the United States overseas and I oppose the major reductions to the State Department budget proposed by the current Administration .
Ensuring Accountability : To bring more accountability to the VA , I cosponsored the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014 . This bipartisan legislation ensures veterans are better served by allowing the VA to replace senior officials found responsible for mismanagement and mistreatment of veterans . A version of this legislation was included in legislation that was signed into law in August 2014 , and that also improved oversight of the VA ’ s healthcare system , increased available resources to hire more medical staff , and provided increased flexibility for veterans to seek care outside the VA system . I also supported the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017 which was signed into law in June of 2017 . This bill provides the VA the authority to remove certain employees or senior executives for reasons of misconduct while protecting whistle - blowers .
Visit our troops stationed in combat zones . Visiting our military servicemembers serving in harm ’ s way is a long - standing Presidential tradition . Senator Klobuchar will visit U . S . troops in combat zones within her first 100 days in office .
that we want to bring with us because I don ' t just want to eat by a victory in this election I want to win big win big what does that mean that means you can get all the things done that we want to get done that we have to get done for a rural economy that ' s what that means to make sure that we have the hospitals in the education system something that I ' ve rolled out here that we have mental health treatment for the people that need it that we do so
Because antitrust agencies are only able to litigate cases involving the most highly concentrated market , they often can ’ t deal with new issues like investment funds ’ cross - ownership of competing firms without an industry .
Strengthening our water infrastructure . Providing communities with clean drinking water and flood protection is critical . Many rural communities across Minnesota are unable to shoulder the financial burden of upgrading or reconstructing key infrastructure projects . We need to invest in the proper infrastructure to keep communities strong and help them continue to grow .
Securing our elections . The freedom to choose our leaders and know with full confidence that those leaders were chosen in free and fair elections is critical to our democracy . We must ensure those on the front - lines of administering elections are equipped with the tools and resources necessary to keep them safe and we also must take measures to prevent a foreign adversary from interfering in our elections .
pursue the good thank you and god bless america forget the bull in the time
Stop the diversion of funds needed to modernize our military bases from being used for the border wall . President Trump is diverting funding meant for modernizing our military bases in order to build his border wall . Senator Klobuchar will rescind his national emergency declaration and return funding for its intended purpose .
Expand apprenticeships . Senator Klobuchar will direct her Secretary of Labor to analyze the use of apprenticeships for in - demand occupations , launch a nationwide campaign , and expand apprenticeship opportunities and benefits with the goal of doubling the number of apprenticeships to over a million by the end of her first term .
“ After four years of Donald Trump , a new President can ’ t wait for a bunch of congressional hearings to act ,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar . “ The urgent problems our country is facing require immediate action . That ’ s why in my first 100 days as President I will enact an ambitious , optimistic agenda to improve our health care , combat climate change , pursue economic justice and shared prosperity , and build a stronger democracy and safer world . With these concrete steps , we will put our country back on a path of progress where people have an opportunity to get ahead .”
Prioritize cybersecurity and protect our elections and other American infrastructure from cyber attack . As President , Senator Klobuchar will make cybersecurity an immediate priority . She will issue an Executive Order launching government - wide cybersecurity initiatives , fast - tracking and streamlining procurement of modern information technology across agencies . She will also launch a cabinet - level taskforce on election cybersecurity to coordinate across agencies , including the intelligence community , on how the federal government can work with state and local governments to address cyber threats to our democracy and infrastructure . She will also introduce legislation that provides election security funding , requires backup paper ballots , and requires campaigns to report contacts from foreign nationals seeking to interfere in an election to federal authorities .
First , a check on merger conditions .
Maybe you remember the first words Alexander Graham Bell said over the telephone : “ Come here , Watson , I need you ,”
Ensure funding to prevent and respond to violent hate crimes and address racial discrimination . Senator Klobuchar will fully staff and fund the Justice Department ’ s Community Relations Service , a non - investigative office of “ peacemakers ” founded by the Civil Rights Act of 1964 , which provides communities facing racial and other conflict with confidential services to ease tensions .
National security also means increasing our capacity to respond to domestic emergencies and disasters and reducing our vulnerabilities abroad and at home . It means limiting our dependence on foreign oil and the unfriendly or unstable regimes that dominate the world ’ s oil supplies .
That ’ s why we had our beer hearing , which was the most widely attended antitrust hearing in the history of America a few years back . What did we call it ? Oh , the “ beerhemoth merger .” Yes , I remember . That was pretty witty . We really have to work hard in this area to make this exciting .
Since 2007 we have taken important steps to improve care , support , and benefits for our troops , veterans , and their families . We upgraded the equipment for our troops in the field to help them safely carry out their missions . We provided record funding increases to strengthen military healthcare and improve veterans ’ health services under the VA . We passed the landmark Post - 9 / 11 GI Bill , which provided enhanced tuition and housing benefits to service members seeking to continue their education and smoothly transition into the civilian workforce . And we passed the pivotal Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act , which not only improved support and training for family caregivers – who often carry the largest burden of nursing our wounded warriors back to health – but also strengthened health programs for women and rural veterans .
Ensure fair labor practices and safe workplaces for federal contractors . Senator Klobuchar will restore policies ensuring fair pay and safe workplaces for federal contractors .
Collect data to address LGBTQ disparities . Senator Klobuchar will ensure all federal data collection efforts accurately reflect the needs of LGBTQ communities including reinstating LGBTQ data in the foster care system and Older American Act that the Trump Administration has tried to stop collecting .
different and love different but we all live in the same country of shared dreams in Minnesota we have the biggest Somali population in the country and we are proud of that community a few years ago at the height of the angry rhetoric a Somali American family of four went out to dinner right here in Minnesota this guy walked by he looked down at them and said you four go home you go home to where you came from and the little girl looked up at her mom and she
In 2015 , the Department of Justice obtained a record $ 3 . 6 billion in criminal antitrust fines . The antitrust division ’ s entire operating budget is roughly 5 percent of this figure . What ’ s incredible is that the division is actually a money maker .
Expand investments in veterans telehealth services . Senator Klobuchar will further expand investments in VA telehealth to ensure rural veterans have access to medical professionals , especially for mental health services .
But I want to be very clear here . It is not enough to prevent a deterioration of enforcement .
in Birmingham Alabama they just commemorated the anniversary of that they were innocent they were innocent because people were trying to take rights away forever since the founding of this country we have stood up for our democracy and for human rights and that ' s what we have to remember is at stake here that ' s what ' s happening right now so Iowa you have been always in the lead on this you led with the Granger movement
Creating stable incentives for the private sector to invest in renewable energy . I authored the bipartisan American Renewable Energy Act that called for long - term extensions of renewable energy production tax credits and a national renewable electricity standard of 25 percent by 2025 . Provisions from this bill to extend production tax credits for renewable energy were included in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 .
Stop the use of noncompete agreements to stifle competition and hurt workers . Senator Klobuchar will instruct the FTC to initiate a rulemaking addressing anti - competitive noncompete agreements that prevent low - wage workers from pursuing new employment opportunities .
Crack down on money laundering and tax evasion . Senator Klobuchar will crack down on money laundering and tax evasion by empowering Treasury ’ s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network to aggressively implement new rules for identifying the “ true ” owner of financial accounts , especially large accounts used in financial transactions where the incidence of fraud and tax evasion is high . And she will call on Congress to enact legislation imposing greater disclosure requirements .
America what does this mean it means an optimistic economic agenda bridging that rural urban divide it means making sure that people in the urban areas understand that food just doesn ' t magically appear on your table it means investing in child care and fair housing infrastructure and getting our education system back on track Iowa it means standing up too risky schemes of privatizing Medicaid it means standing up for our rural Hospital and it means
Introduce sweeping legislation to address the climate crisis . Senator Klobuchar will introduce sweeping legislation to combat the climate crisis that builds on the framework of the Green New Deal , including a massive investment in green jobs and infrastructure , climate research and innovation , environmental justice programs , rural energy development and better greener transportation . In addition to a major direct federal investment , her legislation will create state , local and private incentives for the immediate adoption and deployment of clean energy technology to reduce emissions , including the promotion of green manufacturing . Her proposal will put our country on a path to achieving 100 % net - zero emissions no later than 2050 , fulfill our responsibility to our communities and workers who have helped power this country , and includes incentives and support for tougher building codes , appliance standards , buy clean , and climate resilience .
Take on domestic terrorism . Senator Klobuchar will prioritize combating domestic terrorism and empower law enforcement to investigate and prosecute perpetrators of hate - motivated violence , including against minorities , people of color , immigrants , and the LGBTQ community . She will direct the Department of Homeland Security to resume its work tracking right wing extremism , including white nationalism . And she will require federal law enforcement agencies to regularly assess the threat of domestic terrorism and increase training and resources for state and local law enforcement to address it .
Minnesotans know all too well the burden that is placed on the men and women in our Armed Forces . As a nation and as a state , we have an obligation to wrap our arms around those who serve and sacrifice for us . I am committed to continuing to ensure that we fully repay the sacrifices our veterans have made for all of us , in wars past and present .
after 24 hours and she was in intensive care and I got kicked out of that hospital and when we got out and she got a little better I went to the legislature as a new mom not an elected official and advocated and got passed one of the first laws in the country guaranteeing new moms and their babies a 48 - hour hospital stay my background it ' s a little different than Donald Trump my grandpa a union member worked 1 , 500
We now have evidence that competition fosters small business growth , reduces inequality , and increases innovation . In short , tackling concentrations of power is a linchpin to a healthy economy and democracy .
Strengthening our Armed Forces , National Guard , and Reserves . Our men and women in uniform have consistently performed above and beyond the call of duty , but they have been overstretched by recent conflicts . We need to focus our defense budget on retooling and reinforcing our military capabilities and rewarding those who have sacrificed for this nation , regardless of their service branch . We also need to identify and eliminate wasteful spending and unnecessary programs to ensure fiscal responsibility and accountability in our defense budget , while fully providing our service members with the tools and training they need to carry out their duties . Our military forces should be as cost - effective as possible , and that means investing in the National Guard with its dual federal and state missions . We need to ensure that our National Guard is capable and well - equipped for the full spectrum of missions , and I will oppose disproportionate reductions that target the Guard .
End attempts to reduce federal housing subsidies . Senator Klobuchar will reverse the Trump Administration ’ s proposed changes to federal housing subsidies that could triple rent for some households and be particularly harmful for seniors , families with children and people with disabilities .
Restore asylum for the victims of gender - based violence . Senator Klobuchar will overturn former Attorney General Jeff Sessions ’ s opinion in Matter of A - B and restore protections for immigrant victims of domestic violence seeking asylum in the United States .
ore miner as the daughter of a teacher and a newspaper man as the first woman elected to the United States Senate from the state of Minnesota and as a candidate for president of the United States that is what shared dreams in this country are all about no matter where you come from no matter who you know no matter what you look like and no matter who you love you can get ahead in this country and that ' s why I ' m running for president so
Propose a historic investment in public education . Senator Klobuchar will propose legislation to make a historic investment in America ’ s education system that will fully fund education and our schools , increase teacher pay , close the opportunity gap , fully fund the IDEA , boost STEM education and apprenticeship opportunities , and rebuild our crumbling school infrastructure .
organize here is another one climate change the people the people are on our side when it comes to climate change why because like you and I they believe in science that ' s why in the first 100 days of my administration I will reinstate the clean power rules and the gas mileage standards and put forth sweeping legislation to invest in green jobs and infrastructure and on day one we will rejoin the international climate agreement the obstacles they are our
constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United that is how we get the dark money out of our politics but to do this we need to win and I know I can win because I ' ve done it every place everywhere every time and if we don ' t think we can win in the Midwest with a Midwestern er heading our ticket I have four words for you former Governor Scott Walker Iowa look at the arc that we are on the day after the inauguration millions of people peacefully marched
When there are eight or ten competitors , they ’ re trying to do anything new and innovative to get a leg up on the competition . But when there ’ s only one firm , the status quo is just fine . There ’ s no incentive to develop new products .
levees and the think the big federal investment that we want to come in no that has not happened said he realized he wasn ' t keeping his promise that it was a fake promise just like those gold letters on those time the soybean farmers right here who tell me you know well we thought he was gonna have our backs look what happened soybeans piling up in bins all over Iowa all over Minnesota all over states like Ohio because of his trade
Keeping aquatic invasive species out of Minnesota ’ s rivers and lakes . I was an original cosponsor of bipartisan legislation , signed into law in December of 2011 , which prohibited the importation and transportation of invasive carp . In 2014 , I introduced and passed the Upper Mississippi CARP Act that fought the spread of invasive carp in Minnesota ’ s waterways by authorizing the Army Corps of Engineers to close the St . Anthony Falls Dam if invasive carp are found in certain areas . And I ’ ve worked with Representative Erik Paulsen to upgrade the Coon Rapids Dam , which has been identified as an effective barrier for preventing the spread of invasive carp up the Mississippi River watershed . I also joined senators in introducing legislation to help the Army Corps of Engineers evaluate a hydrologic barrier to block the spread of invasive carp in the waterways connecting the Great Lakes and alternatives for boating traffic .
Improve train safety . The Trump Administration blocked a proposal to require two - person train crews for safety . Senator Klobuchar will direct the Department of Transportation to restart this rulemaking and she will also restore a number of rules to improve train safety .
Keeping our airports secure . In order to improve safety and efficiency at our airports , I supported increasing the Department of Homeland Security ’ s budget by more than $ 62 million to hire more than 1 , 000 additional screeners . I also fought to pass an amendment that doubles the number of law enforcement teams that secure the ticket lines and baggage claim areas of our airports . That amendment passed in the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) Reauthorization bill that was signed into law in 2016 . I have also worked with the Minnesota Airport Council to ensure that vital security resources get to our airports . I helped secure approval of overtime , deployment of additional K - 9 teams , and the deployment of newly - hired Transportation Security Officers to Minneapolis - St . Paul to permit more lanes to be opened . These measures improved the safety and efficiency of security screening at our airports and helped reduce wait times
That ’ s why one of my top economic priorities is antitrust enforcement — or ensuring we have free , open , competitive markets .
Restore reporting requirements of civilian casualties . Senator Klobuchar will issue an Executive Order restoring requirements for the release an annual report on the strikes undertaken by the U . S . military and Central Intelligence Agency outside of war zones and assessments of military and civilian deaths resulting from those strikes .
Or the fact that prices in America should be lower than other countries because the market is so large . But , in general , American prices are not lower than in countries with smaller markets .
Expand the open enrollment period for health insurance under the Affordable Care Act so more people can get insurance coverage . Rather than shortening the open enrollment period on the exchanges from November 1 st to December 15 th , which happened under the Trump Administration , Senator Klobuchar will expand the open enrollment period for exchange enrollment so more people can access health insurance .
because to me immigrants don ' t diminish America they are America so one of the things that we have seen this president do is he tries to talk the game right but instead what do we see is more and more dark money coming into our politics and I ' m someone that thoroughly believes we need to judge people on the merit we need to allow people to run no matter their from actually in my life when I first ran for Senate no one could pronounce my name and I ended up giving
But now it looks like that the President is speaking a different language . I ’ ll give you a just a few examples :
Curbing the threat of a nuclear - armed Iran . Preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon is one of the most important objectives of our national security policy , and I strongly supported the sanctions that helped bring Iran to the negotiating table . After extensive review , I reached the conclusion that the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action – the agreement reached between Iran and the United States , United Kingdom , France , Germany , Russia , and China – was our best available option to put the brakes on Iran ’ s development of a nuclear weapon , and I opposed the Administration ’ s decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear agreement . I supported the agreement for four key reasons . First , the agreement curbs Iran ’ s ability to develop a nuclear weapon . The agreement requires Iran to give up 98 percent of its stockpile of enriched uranium , disconnect two - thirds of its centrifuges , limit uranium enrichment to a single research facility , open its nuclear facilities to continuous monitoring , and allow stringent inspections of its uranium supply chain . Second , if Iran cheats on the deal , sanctions can be reimposed or “ snapped back ,” and the military option remains on the table . Third , rejecting the agreement would splinter our international partnership of countries that has been critical to preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon . Finally , this agreement will move in parallel with increased commitments to security assistance for Israel and our other allies in the region . In conjunction with my support for this agreement , I have pushed the Administration and my colleagues in Congress for additional assistance to Israel and our other regional allies to strengthen their security through support for the Iron Dome , David ’ s Sling , and the 10 - year Memorandum of Understanding entered into in 2016 that commits $ 38 billion in security assistance to Israel . I will also continue to support efforts to combat terrorist groups in the Mideast and strengthen our response to Iran ’ s ballistic missile program , human rights abuses , and material support for terrorism . That is why I have supported increasing sanctions against Iran , including targeting those who provide financial support to Hezbollah .
Invest in Alzheimer ’ s research . Senator Klobuchar will commit to preventing , treating and facilitating a cure for Alzheimer ’ s disease , with the goal of putting us on a path toward developing a cure and treatment by 2025 . She will also immediately expand initiatives that provide support for family caregivers .
Propose legislation to get us to universal health care . Senator Klobuchar will propose legislation that gets us to universal health care , which includes creating a public health care option by expanding either Medicare or Medicaid , as well as improving the Affordable Care Act to help bring down costs to consumers through reinsurance , providing cost - sharing reductions , expanding premium subsidies , and continuing delivery system reform . Her legislation will also provide additional consumer protections and lower the costs of prescription drugs through aggressive reforms including lifting the ban that prohibits Medicare from negotiating the best possible price . These programs significantly reduce cost to consumers and help promote choice .
In light of the broader impact of competition , the stakes are just too high to play defense . That ’ s why today I am announcing that I will introduce a package of bills with three goals :
Improving treatment of Post - Traumatic Stress Disorder and other mental health needs . According to a Veterans ' Health Administration report from 2012 , roughly one - third of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans who sought care through the VA have been diagnosed with potential symptoms of post - traumatic stress , drug abuse , or other mental health disorders . We must provide increased counseling services and create greater awareness for the tens of thousands of veterans suffering from Post - Traumatic Stress Disorder .
Protecting the Great Lakes and Upper Mississippi River watershed . I was an original cosponsor of the Great Lakes Legacy Act of 2008 , which bolstered pollution clean - up efforts in the Great Lakes . I am also an original cosponsor of the Great Lakes Ecological and Economic Protection Act , which will build on and continue the successful clean - up efforts established by the Great Lakes Legacy Act . And I have authored the Upper Mississippi River Protection Act , which aims to help reduce pollution in the Upper Mississippi River . As one of the Vice Chairs of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force , enhancing the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes is one of my top priorities .
things at once we can maintain our democracy and have an optimistic economic agenda for this country that means supporting unions and raising the minimum wage to $ 15 an hour right that means making sure that we take on and get to universal health care and take on those big pharma companies to bring down the cost of prescription drugs I want you to remember that we can do this I ' m someone that has gotten everywhere I got when I was running against someone who
Provide incentives for states and localities to adopt sentencing and prison reforms . Congress passed the First Step Act , which changed the overly harsh sentencing laws on nonviolent drug offenders and reformed our federal prisons . But the reform only applies to those held in the federal system . The new law doesn ’ t help the nearly 90 % of people incarcerated in state and local facilities . Senator Klobuchar will create federal incentives so that states can restore some discretion from mandatory sentencing for nonviolent offenders and reform the unconscionable conditions in state prisons and local jails .
Remove barriers to education for homeless and foster youth . Senator Klobuchar will direct her Secretary of Education to remove barriers to higher education for homeless and foster youth , including by ensuring grant programs identify , recruit and prepare homeless and foster students for college .
future we are not afraid of women having a seat at the table he is afraid he is afraid of a woman in the White House we are not afraid of that he is afraid of working people having the same rights and a chance to succeed as wealthy people we are not afraid we embrace that right that is what this is about he is looking back and he is afraid we are not and especially not in this state so I ' m asking you to join me not with fear I ' m asking you to join me to build
That is just the beginning of Congress ’ s responsibilities . I take my responsibilities on the Antitrust Subcommittee seriously , and am committed to protecting and promoting vigorous antitrust enforcement .
Ensure that the President is not above the law . Senator Klobuchar will instruct the Justice Department to withdraw the Office of Legal Counsel ’ s opinions prohibiting the indictment of a sitting president .
Securing funding for equipment and infrastructure for our Minnesota National Guard . I worked with our Minnesota National Guard commanders and other members of our Minnesota congressional delegation to secure upgraded F - 16 planes for the 148 th Fighter Wing that is a central part of the Duluth community . With the support of the Minnesota National Guard and Duluth officials and businesses , I successfully worked to establish an association of active duty airmen at the Duluth air base . I have also secured funding for the Minnesota National Guard ’ s Joint Force headquarters and emergency operations center in Arden Hills , a field maintenance shop in Mankato , a storage facility for the Duluth Air Guard base , and a new training facility at Camp Ripley . In addition , when the Air Force proposed eliminating the Air Reserve 934 th Airlift Wing in Minneapolis , I led the effort to communicate the unit ’ s unique capabilities and value to Air Force leadership , which resulted in a reversal of the Air Force ’ s proposal in 2013 .
Investigate deceptive online travel practices that hurt consumers . Senator Klobuchar will direct the Federal Trade Commission and Department of Transportation to investigate deceptive and fraudulent practices by online travel booking websites .
This energy future must be based on a combination of homegrown energy sources , new energy technologies , and energy efficiency measures . In Minnesota , we have the talent and know - how to innovate and the natural resources to propel our economy forward . I believe this is a great opportunity to meet our nation ’ s energy demands and promote economic development across America .
Improving the VA . We must ensure that our veterans are getting the support and healthcare they need and deserve , and that VA employees responsible for mismanagement or mistreatment of veterans are held accountable .
Strengthen the Minority Business Development Agency . The Minority Business Development Agency provides technical and managerial expertise to help minority business overcome social and economic disadvantages . President Trump has proposed eliminating the agency , but as President , Senator Klobuchar will ensure it has the resources it needs .
Or the failed merger between Norfolk Southern Railway and Canadian Pacific , something I took on immediately after it was announced . Even without the merger , 90 percent of freight traffic is handled by only four railroads . As I like to note on this topic , how many railroads are on the Monopoly board ? Four . No coincidence .
feet underground in the mines he saved money in a coffee can to send my dad to Community College my mom she grew up in Wisconsin she became a teacher a proud union teacher and she taught second grade until she was 70 years old and I stand before you today as the granddaughter of an iron ore miner the daughter of a teacher and a newspaperman the first woman elected to the United States Senate from the state of Minnesota and a candidate for
Cutting Out - of - Pocket Costs for National Guard Members and Reservists . In Minnesota , 30 percent of all National Guard members travel more than 50 miles for training . Our servicemembers shouldn ’ t be burdened with costly travel expenses simply for completing their required duty training each month . I have introduced legislation that will help reduce the cost of service and make a big difference for thousands of soldiers in the Minnesota National Guard by reducing the mileage that can be claimed on taxes from 100 to 50 .
Countering Violent Extremism . While we must continue to focus on the effort to degrade and dismantle ISIS and other terrorist groups with military operations overseas , we must also stem the tide of recruitment of both foreign fighters and homegrown terrorists in order to succeed . That is why I have repeatedly urged Congress and the White House to support funding for efforts that promote community engagement and work to prevent radicalization . In 2014 , Minnesota received $ 216 , 000 in federal funding to create a pilot program to address violent extremism . In 2015 , I worked to authorize more than $ 50 million for these efforts , including $ 10 million in local community grants . In 2017 Minnesota received over $ 770 , 000 to support these programs .
Protect federal employee labor rights . Senator Klobuchar will immediately rescind Executive Orders signed by President Trump that severely restrict federal workers ’ rights , including the right to collectively bargain .
Expand loans for and investments in local communities in need . For the past 40 years , the Community Reinvestment Act has encouraged financial institutions to make loans and investment in local communities , especially low - income and minority communities . Senator Klobuchar will protect the CRA and instruct financial regulators to conduct greater outreach to assess the true credit needs of their communities .
horrible refugee order got issued by the White House what happened people spontaneously showed up at the airports all around the country and protested who does that on a Saturday night you did it and they did it you did it on day 100 my favorite March the March for science my favorite sign what do we want science when do we want it after peer - review okay we march for science and we march to do something about climate change and it ' s your president I ' ll get us back
Reverse dramatic proposed funding cuts to diplomacy and foreign assistance . Senator Klobuchar will reverse this Administration ’ s shortsighted approach to diplomacy and US foreign assistance . The FY 2020 budget request would cut diplomacy and development funding by 23 percent , including a 30 percent cut to humanitarian assistance and a 22 percent cut to the President ’ s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief .
I introduced legislation with former Representative John Kline to protect veterans from erroneous and untimely VA billing practices after a number of Minnesota veterans who received treatment at the Minneapolis VA Medical Center received bills up to five years late . Another way to improve access to healthcare for our veterans is to ensure VA medical facilities can recruit qualified mental health professionals , doctors , dentists , and nurses . That ’ s why I introduced the Veterans Access to Care Act , bipartisan legislation that would designate VA medical facilities and state veterans ' homes as Health Professional Shortage Areas ( HPSAs ), which would allow the VA to be more competitive in the recruitment of healthcare service providers .
from the heart okay let me be blunt for too long leaders in Washington have sat on the sidelines while others try to figure out what to do about the changing economy and its impact on our lives what to do about the disruptive nature of new technologies income inequality the political and geographic divides the changing climate the tumult in our world for a moment let ' s stop seeing those
box and he said that wasn ' t patriotic that was wrong and I ' m not doing it again that ' s what Sam then we had the union worker in Pittsburgh who told me he voted for him because he thought Donald Trump was gonna build things baby ' s gonna build things his name was on the tower he newly done things and then every time when they see where is this new infrastructure in festival right have we seen it in Iowa have we seen new
Protecting the Great Lakes . Minnesota is home to Lake Superior , the largest of the Great Lakes and the largest freshwater lake in the world . Lake Superior and the Great Lakes as a whole are vital to Minnesota ’ s environment and economy . As one of the Vice Chairs of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force , I will continue supporting our shipping , boating , and fishing industries while pursuing responsible policies that keep our waters clean and clear of invasive species like invasive carp and zebra mussels .
Revive the aggressive protection of voting rights . Senator Klobuchar will restore the federal government ’ s longstanding position of challenging intentionally racially discriminatory voting laws . And while Congress works to restore the Voting Rights Act ( VRA ), Senator Klobuchar will direct the Department of Justice to use Section 3 of the VRA to “ bail - in ” jurisdictions to its preclearance requirements , allowing federal courts to place jurisdictions under the oversight requirement of the VRA .
Bring transparency to dark money issue advocacy . Senator Klobuchar will direct the IRS to institute the requirement that tax - exempt organizations that engage in issue advocacy disclose to the IRS the names of individual donors who contribute more than $ 5 , 000 per year .
Still , these agencies are doing the best they can , and we ’ ve seen some real results .
This is all true . But the point I really want to emphasize is this — talking about antitrust only in this way is outdated and oversimplified .
Finally , I am a supporter of the Veterans Debt Fairness Act which would protect veterans from financial hardship caused by VA overpayments and recoupment . In 2016 and 2017 , over 490 , 000 overpayment notices were issued to veterans . Oftentimes the VA recoups the funds by withholding some or all of a veteran ’ s monthly disability benefit . The Veterans Debt Fairness Act would improve the VA ’ s process by only allowing the VA to collect debts that occur as a result of an error or fraud on the part of a veteran , prohibits the VA from deducting more than 25 percent from a veteran ’ s monthly payment , prevents the VA from collecting debts incurred more than five years prior , and requires that the VA provide veterans with a way to update their dependency information on their own .
Protect retiree pensions . The Kline - Miller Multiemployer Pension Reform Act of 2014 ( MPRA ) allows underfunded multiemployer pension plans to request permission from the Treasury Department to reduce retiree benefits in order to improve their financial condition . Senator Klobuchar believes retirees are entitled to the benefits they ’ ve earned during their working lives and will recommend that Treasury heighten the scrutiny of any applications to reduce retiree benefits under MPRA .
Expanding Access : It isn ’ t enough to provide our veterans with health care . Veterans deserve timely access to the best healthcare that we can offer . I fought to include provisions in the 2014 National Defense Authorization Act ( NDAA ) requiring the Defense Department and the VA to report on steps they are taking to reduce the excessively - long backlog of disability evaluations . I also supported the bipartisan Veterans Access , Choice , and Accountability Act ( VACAA ), which increases funding available for the VA to hire medical professionals and expands flexibility for veterans to seek care at non - VA facilities . I will continue to work to improve the implementation of VACAA and push for changes like those in the Caring for Our Veterans Act to ensure the VA works for Minnesota veterans . That includes holding the VA and contractors accountable for the services they provide to veterans . In addition , I cosponsored the Veterans Appeals Assistance and Improvement Act of 2015 , bipartisan legislation that would improve and expand pro bono legal services for veterans during their appeals process .
Securing our elections and stopping foreign influence . Our top intelligence agencies confirmed Russia interfered in our 2016 election , launched cyberattacks against at least 21 state election systems , and are currently working to undermine upcoming elections . Right now there are more than 40 states that rely on electronic voting systems that are at least 10 years old and many election officials do not have the information they need about potential cyber threats . That ’ s why I introduced the bipartisan Secure Elections Act , which would establish that alarm system by providing resources and information to upgrade and protect our election infrastructure . The bill also ensures the Department of Homeland Security shares election cybersecurity threats and information with state , county , and municipal election agencies . I worked to secure $ 380 million in funding for these efforts to improve states ’ election infrastructure and help protect states from future attacks by foreign adversaries in March 2018 . We also have to make sure our elections are free from foreign influence campaigns and there are rules of the road in place for social media that includes disclaimers on ads and increased transparency and disclosure . The law banning foreign contributions to U . S . elections has not been updated for more than 50 years . This means that current disclosure requirements for online campaign contributions do not fully protect our election system from foreign interference . That is why I introduced the Honest Ads Act with former Senator McCain and Senator Warner that would strengthen accountability and transparency by holding political ads sold online to the same standards currently in place for television and radio .
Protect DACA and TPS and Deferred Enforcement Departure designations . While she jump - starts negotiations for comprehensive immigration reform with the stated goal of passing it within the first year , Senator Klobuchar will undo attempts by the Trump Administration — many of which have been blocked by courts — to deport DREAMers and immigrants who are living , working and succeeding here under Temporary Protected Status and Deferred Enforcement Departure .
Conserving our natural resources . Conservation programs in the Farm Bill provide the tools for farmers and ranchers in Minnesota to conserve sensitive lands and promote farming practices that reduce soil erosion and improve air and water quality . Minnesota consistently ranks in the top five states for conservation program enrollment . The Farm Bill protects the important programs Minnesota producers use to keep our soil healthy and our water clean . As a member of the Senate Agriculture , Nutrition , and Forestry Committee , I am committed to strengthening our conservation programs . That ’ s why I introduced legislation with Senator Thune from South Dakota to protect native prairie by making changes to the crop insurance program to reduce the incentive to grow crops for the first time on native prairie . I have also introduced legislation to help farmers and land - grant universities better utilize USDA ’ s conservation data so they can apply conservation practices in an effective way to improve the environment .
I continued the fight against sexual assault in the military by reintroducing the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Act in March 2013 with Senator Lisa Murkowski , which requires the military services to elevate the rank of the officer authorized to dispose of sexual assault charges , sets preferred policy for the disposition of sexual assault cases through courts martial , and requires the Secretary of Defense to retain restricted reports of sexual assault for at least 50 years in order to ensure veterans who have been victimized by these crimes will have the records they need to claim medical treatment and benefits . I also introduced a bill to require the Defense Department ’ s Inspector General to investigate allegations of retaliation against servicemembers who report incidents of sexual assault . Both this bill and the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Act of 2013 were included in the FY 2014 NDAA , which was signed into law by the President in December 2013 . In September 2014 , I introduced the National Guard and Reserve Access to Counsel Act to ensure that members of the National Guard and Reserve who are victims of sexual assault have access to Special Victims ’ Counsel ( SVC ) services if the assault had any connection to the victims ’ military service . I worked with former Representative John Kline to pass this legislation in the FY 2015 NDAA , which was signed into law in December 2014 .
always believed in doing my job without fear or favor that ' s what I do as a senator and that ' s what I did as a prosecutor and that means not only convicting the guilty but protecting the innocent that ' s why I have and why I will always continue to advocate for criminal justice reform that ' s why in a state where we all value hunting and fishing and the great outdoors I am not afraid to join the vast majority of Americans including
During the first 100 days of Senator Klobuchar ’ s presidency , she will :
Addressing Unique Medical Challenges Including Burn Pits : I worked to extend benefits to veterans with physical conditions that resulted from their military service . I introduced the bipartisan Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act , bipartisan legislation that became law in September 2018 to create a center of excellence within the Department of Veterans Affairs to focus on the prevention , diagnosis , mitigation , treatment , and rehabilitation of health conditions relating to exposure to burn pits . I also introduced legislation with Senator Dan Sullivan to require that members of the Armed Forces be evaluated for exposure to toxic airborne chemicals during routine health exams and direct the Secretary of Defense to record whether servicemembers were based or stationed near an open burn pit . With an increasing number of our brave men and women returning home citing illnesses potentially caused by burn pit exposure , it ’ s clear that greater attention is needed to get our veterans the care they need . In addition , I cosponsored the Agent Orange Equity Act to ensure benefits for “ blue water veterans ” who became exposed to the dioxin Agent Orange during their service in the waterways around Vietnam .
stakes are president that doesn ' t see the difference between an America as good as its promise and in America he can sell for a promise that ' s him and I am still waiting to find out how he thinks making that call to the president of Ukraine and getting him to try to interfere in our election by looking for dirt on a political opponent I ' m still waiting to find out why that makes America great again right I ' m still waiting to find out why leaving
Fill judicial vacancies by nominating well - qualified judges on day one . Senator Klobuchar will waste no time in working with the Senate and the American Bar Association to nominate a full slate of well - qualified judges who will follow the law to fill judicial vacancies on federal courts on day one of her presidency .
Combating climate change . We have received warning after warning about the devastating consequences of climate change that are coming much sooner than expected . There is now a scientific consensus that climate change is having an impact on our world and it is clear that inaction is not an option for our economy , for our environment , for our country , and for our world . I support a comprehensive approach that would reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote the development of energy efficient technologies and homegrown energy resources without burdening our farmers and small businesses . As a member of the Senate Climate Action Taskforce , I am fighting to ensure that efforts to address the threat of climate change are a part of our nation ’ s energy and environmental policy , and I believe that we must work toward achieving 100 percent net - zero emissions by 2050 . I strongly support the Paris Climate Agreement and have pushed the Administration to rejoin the Agreement . I also believe that we must reinstate the Clean Power Plan rules and gas mileage standards that have been reversed by this Administration . In addition , I have opposed cabinet members who doubt the science and deny climate change is occurring .
I have always believed that when we ask our young men and women to fight in defense of our nation , we make a promise that we will give them the resources they need to do their jobs . We also promise to take care of them when they return home . As a nation , we have an obligation to support those who have sacrificed for us .
Ensuring that our troops have the resources and support they need to do their jobs and remain safe . I traveled to Iraq and Afghanistan to see firsthand the actions of our brave Minnesotans in the field and to meet with U . S . military commanders and diplomatic leaders . I was encouraged by the spirit of our soldiers and honored to meet with Minnesota troops to thank them for their service and sacrifices on behalf of our nation . I came home with a commitment to give our troops stationed in combat zones the equipment and resources they need to successfully carry out their missions and to ensure they are treated with the respect they deserve when they return home . In the Senate , I have supported funding increases for better and safer equipment , including to provide our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan with mine - resistant combat vehicles and individual troop body armor and to address shortfalls in critical National Guard equipment .
every single County in 30 hours in a day and a half cuz they have ten of them in the middle of the Northeast er so don ' t feel cold until you ' ve been out there but we did that and now we ' re here and as I said I can ' t think of three better people to be up here with me Mollie incredible representative was such a great spirit you can literally feel it when you see her my favorite memory of Mollie was the this the st . Patrick ' s Day parade in this town where
As Minnesota ’ s U . S . senator , I will continue to focus on these priorities :
Eliminating the claims backlog to ensure Minnesota veterans receive the full benefits they have earned . The men and women who have served our nation often wait months or even years to receive the pension or disability benefits they are due for their service . We owe it to our veterans to cut through the claims backlog and the red tape and ensure they have all the support they need , both in the short - and long - term .
End the Trump Administration ’ s censoring of climate science . Senator Klobuchar will end Trump Administration efforts to censor climate science through actions like deleting climate - focused websites , removing the phrase “ climate change ” from reports , and preventing government scientists from attending conferences on climate change .
Immediately suspend the Trump Administration ’ s efforts to eliminate the Affordable Care Act ’ s protections for people with pre - existing conditions . Senator Klobuchar will immediately suspend all Trump Administration efforts — both in federal court and at the Department of Health and Human Services — that would allow insurance companies to deny coverage to people with pre - existing conditions .
As one potential model , President Obama ’ s proposed 2017 budget would have doubled charges for deals over one billion dollars . Even then , the charged amount would be less than 1 percent of the proposed value of the deal .
Increasing security at our borders , ports , airports and critical infrastructure sites . This includes the screening of cargo entering U . S . ports , enacting effective security regulations for nuclear and chemical plants , and guarding our food supply . We must provide our first responders and emergency personnel with the full resources they need to respond to disasters , natural or manmade . We must also continue to do everything we can to strengthen security at airports and at train stations . We need to continue to focus our attention on enhancing aviation security and ensuring that our mass transit and rail systems are prepared for new , changing , and more sophisticated threats . We must also ensure that our airports are safely screening passengers in an efficient way . I support smart security at our borders and oppose the Administration ’ s proposal to build a wall across our entire southern border .
You ’ ve heard much of this before : When companies are allowed to compete , businesses can offer the highest quality good for the lowest possible price .
Remove the citizenship question from the Census . Senator Klobuchar will direct the Department of Commerce to remove the Trump Administration ’ s citizenship question that was added to the 2020 Census from the short form during preparations for the 2030 Census .
believed in science you gave us Edna Griffin who took need not take no for an answer when she wanted to be served in Des Moines at the height of the civil rights movement and yes you gave us ABI and Cindy and Rita and JD that are changing this country we have a guy in the White House now who is afraid he is afraid of the future right he ' s afraid of the NRA he ' s afraid of science he ' s afraid of equal whites we are not afraid of equal rights we are not afraid of the
Prevent outsourcing of jobs overseas by closing tax loopholes on corporations ’ overseas earnings . The 2017 tax law instituted a new minimum tax on corporations ’ overseas earnings but applied the tax on a global or “ blended ” rate , encouraging companies to move physical operations and jobs overseas . Senator Klobuchar will direct the IRS to mitigate the worst effects of this law and crack down on attempts to minimize tax liability through outsourcing .
Which brings me to the bad news . The federal government ’ s commitment to antitrust enforcement has declined .
Effective enforcement depends on feedback . Agencies can make better enforcement decisions if they understand what has worked in the past . And this much is clear — we need to give the agencies the tools to check whether their efforts have been successful .
First , as a plaintiff in the United States Football League ’ s case against the NFL , Trump won a dollar in damages ( tripled to three dollars ). There is even an ESPN documentary about it .
Take for example , Comcast ’ s failed merger with Time Warner . As we pointed out at the Senate hearing , if the merger was approved , the combined company would have controlled 60 percent of the country ’ s high - speed broadband customers .
Some might argue that President Trump — who has been both plaintiff and defendant in antitrust lawsuits — will champion increased enforcement efforts .
that took on monopoly power and consolidation you did you led with Norfolk for one who with his Green Revolution no I actually I met him I also went I ' m kidding I met I actually went to the unveiling of his statue in the statuary statutory Hall in Congress and it was amazing cuz I had always thought he was from Minnesota because while I knew that he had gone to college they were taught
End the Justice Department ’ s reliance on private prisons . As President , Senator Klobuchar will phase out the use of private prisons by directing the Department of Justice to decline to renew or reduce the scope of contracts when the contract reaches its end .
Strengthen the National Science Foundation and National Institutes of Health . Senator Klobuchar will fully support the National Science Foundation and ensure that research decisions are being made by researchers and scientists , not politicians . She will also bolster research at the National Institutes of Health and research into cancer , including breast cancer , which the Senator has long supported .
Preserving open spaces and native wildlife . Outdoor recreation contributes billions of dollars to Minnesota ’ s economy . We need policies that preserve our open spaces , farmlands , and hunting lands , while protecting vital wetlands so that we can maintain important wildlife habitats and reduce flooding dangers .
Recognizing Combat Zone Service . I was an original cosponsor of the Sinai Service Recognition Act . The United States has deployed service members to the Sinai Peninsula since 1982 to perform a peacekeeping function . The Department of Defense designated the Sinai Peninsula as a “ Qualified Hazardous Duty Area ” in 2015 , however , the President did not designate the Sinai Peninsula as a “ Combat Zone .” As a result , troops deployed to the Sinai did not benefit from the same tax - free treatment as those who are deployed to designated combat zones . The Sinai Service Recognition Act was included in legislation signed into law in December of 2017 and now servicemembers deployed to the Sinai benefit from the same tax - free treatment as those deployed to designated combat zones .
Then , across the country , entrepreneurs started what we call the craft brewing revolution . They innovated , increased choices , and improved quality .
in Minnesota in a state Donald Trump almost won well you know what we did I went to every single County I went to every single congressional district I led that ticket of to Senate seats a governor ' s seat and guess what I won for the third time in a row from rural to urban every single congressional district including Michele Bachmann ' s then you look at what we did we won the governor ' s race together in the state of Kansas and beat Crisco Bob we did that
Advancing peace and security in the Middle East requires the United States to continue providing vital assistance to Afghanistan and Iraq . The U . S . and NATO combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan have ended , but a smaller military presence remains to advise and support the security forces . This strategy puts the governments of Iraq and Afghanistan in the lead for security and economic development and allows the United States to continue to conduct counterterrorism operations . The international community must work together to emphasize security and economic development for the people of Iraq and Afghanistan . I will continue to push for strong and necessary oversight of U . S . policy in Iraq and Afghanistan and a responsible approach to U . S . troop engagement that ensures these countries cannot be used as a safe haven for terrorists again .
End attacks on tribal sovereignty . Senator Klobuchar will respect tribal sovereignty including by stopping the Department of Justice from taking anti - sovereignty positions in litigation , directing the Department of Health and Human Services from deferring to states on Medicaid rules for tribal members , and increasing meaningful tribal consultation .
Reinstate joint employer rules that protect workers ’ rights . While the Trump Administration attempted to rewrite the “ joint employment ” standard , Senator Klobuchar will restore guidance recognizing the responsibilities of joint employers to their employees .
Get the United States back in the International Climate Agreement on day one . On day one of Senator Klobuchar ’ s presidency she will get us back into the International Climate Change Agreement , working so that the United States maintains global leadership to address the climate crisis .
Advancing peace and security in the Middle East . ISIS and other terrorist groups are a serious threat to security in the Middle East and beyond . They are responsible for executing innocent American civilians , massacring and persecuting religious minorities , and trafficking and enslaving women and girls . While much of territory once held by ISIS has been taken back by coalition forces , we must remain committed to rooting out the ideology that gave rise to ISIS in the first place . We have to take a similar approach in going after the people who fund terrorism . It is critical that we continue our efforts to track and cut off the financial resources of terrorist groups . These terrorist threats extend to our own country , as the terrorist groups recruit Americans to join their ranks . We need strong programs that work with our communities to counter violent extremism and prevent recruitment by militant groups seeking to exploit our citizens .
While major positive changes have been made to how the military handles sexual assault cases , there is still more to do . Along with many of my colleagues , I am continuing to work to improve how the military prosecutes serious crimes like sexual assault .
So here ’ s the billion dollar question — what are we going to do about this ?
Introduce gun violence legislation . Senator Klobuchar will introduce gun violence legislation including putting universal background checks in place , closing the gun show loophole , and banning bump stocks , assault weapons and high capacity magazines .
Keeping our air and water clean . Minnesota has some of the strongest pollution control standards in the country . Residents across our state are concerned about the negative impacts of mercury contamination and other pollutants that affect our public health and natural resources . Because pollution does not stop at state lines , we need strong federal standards to match Minnesota ’ s leadership and that is why I have opposed this Administration ’ s attempts to roll back clean air and water rules .
Promoting the development of homegrown renewable energy . Minnesota is at the forefront of ethanol , biodiesel , and wind energy production and led the nation in 2007 by adopting a renewable energy standard that requires electric utilities to obtain 25 percent of their electricity from renewable sources like wind , solar , and biomass by the year 2025 . We are well on our way toward meeting this goal as more than 21 percent of Minnesota ’ s electricity comes from renewable sources . This policy has helped stimulate renewable development throughout Minnesota , bringing in new investment and opportunities to both rural and urban areas . Our nation needs to follow Minnesota ’ s lead by adopting national standards for renewable energy and by providing consumers more choices at the gas pump .
All of this suggests that now more than ever , we need vigorous antitrust enforcement . Especially in light of the stakes . Without effective antitrust enforcement , we may be jeopardizing our broader economic health .
Today , in my state alone , we have over 70 craft brewers , more than the entire country had back in 1978 .
Prevent federal funding from being used to arm teachers . The Trump Administration has indicated that it would consider providing federal funding to arm teachers . Senator Klobuchar will prevent any federal funding from being used for arming teachers .
Research also suggests that concentration increases income inequality . Intuitively , this makes a lot of sense . Firms with monopoly power raise prices , taking money from consumers and putting it in the pocket of owners and employees . The consumers who spend money far outnumber the owners and employees who gain it — all of which contributes to inequality in this country .
and not to look away anymore I ' m asking you to look up to look at each other to look at the future before us let us rise to the occasion and meet the challenges of our day let us cross the river of our divides and walk across our sturdy bridge to higher ground one as one faith leader reminded me this week to pursue the good we must believe that good will prevail I do believe it and so do you so let ' s join together as one nation indivisible under God and
anyway that is what ' s happening across America so I just want us to remember that I know that ' s not what this primary discussions are about but when we stand up there on that debate stage the candidates we ' ve got an obligation an obligation to debate policies that ' s what debates are about right but we also have an obligation to make the case yes to our fired - up base for change in policy but also to independence and moderate Republicans
Minnesotans also understand the need for a comprehensive energy strategy that puts America back in control of our energy supply . We need to chart a new energy future – one that creates jobs , reduces our dependence on foreign oil , increases renewable energy production , keeps energy costs affordable for all Americans , and responds to the challenges of global climate change .
hey everyone I wore my Planned Parenthood pink but I could have worn purple for sciu also the color of Minnesota ' s prints right it is so wonderful to be here with all of you they say that the arc of the moral universe is long well you are the welders that are shortening it every day so thank you for that so you probably saw that I announced my candidacy for presidency in the middle of a blizzard
Expanding healthcare for veterans who have suffered traumatic injuries . Tens of thousands of veterans have returned from the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts with serious wounds . Many service members severely injured in Iraq and Afghanistan who sought hospital treatment were diagnosed with traumatic brain injuries . We must increase the number of polytrauma treatment centers created in recognition of the large number of servicemembers who have sustained multiple severe injuries – including head and spinal injuries – as a result of explosions and blasts on the battlefield . We must also improve the long - term and assisted living services for veterans with traumatic brain injuries .
Here ’ s the good news . Antitrust and competition policies are not Republican or Democratic issues , they are consumer issues . We can all agree that robust competition is essential to our free - market economy .
Restore staffing levels at the EPA . The Environmental Protection Agency now has fewer staff members than President Reagan ’ s EPA had in his final year in office . Senator Klobuchar will restore appropriate staffing levels to allow the agency to effectively protect the environment .
against racism and for decency and for dignity doug jones won that race in the state of alabama that happened or my favorite legislative races that fall in virginia new jersey where a woman actually won and she beat a guy who had the day of the woman ' s march had said i hope they ' ll be home in time to make dinner he got beaten by a woman then you go forward into the rest of the year where you saw those students march in unity those Parkland students joined by
So as I said at the beginning , our goal is to make antitrust cool again . And if the Administration won ’ t do it , we will .
Thank You Iowa Democrats I am your senator next door and I can see Iowa from my porch so neighbors you may have seen my announcement in the middle of a Minnesota blizzard you know what happened after that announcement the president sent out a tweet and he made fun of me for talking about climate change in the middle of a snowstorm and he gave me a nickname snow woman so I wrote back hey Donald
Reduce racial disparities in disciplining students . Senator Klobuchar will re - issue guidance directing schools to reduce racial disparities in how they discipline students , which prompted more than 50 of America ’ s largest school districts to institute discipline reform .
Undertake a comprehensive review and restore environmental protections repealed by the Trump Administration . The Trump Administration has revoked dozens of guidance documents and rules that protect people ’ s safety , health and the environment when it comes to our power plants , oil refineries , national parks and wildlife refuges , offshore drilling , pipelines , and oil and gas development . Senator Klobuchar will undertake a thorough review of all the repealed guidance and rules , and work to restore our environmental and safety protections .
Improve free tax filing . Senator Klobuchar will direct the IRS to prevent tax preparation vendors from steering low - income taxpayers toward paid products , which has reduced the use of free filing products . She will also direct the IRS to devote greater resources to the enforcement of vendors ’ obligations under the Free File program .
Expand VA health benefits for women veterans and their babies . The Women Veterans Health Care Improvement Act of 2008 gave the VA the authority to provide care for newborn babies born to women veterans , but a narrow interpretation of the law is preventing access to care . Senator Klobuchar will direct the VA to expand covering the costs of medically - necessary emergency services for newborn babies of veterans .
own a call . we we are teaming up to pass meaningful legislation to bring in competitive safe drugs from other countries to stop Big Pharma ' s practice of paying off generic companies to keep their products off the market we ' re going to harness a negotiating power of 43 million seniors that ' s a lot of negotiating power and lift the ban on negotiating cheaper prices under Medicare for prescription drugs I have
Protect student borrowers . Senator Klobuchar will restore and strengthen rules that allow students who believe they were defrauded by their colleges to apply for loan forgiveness , providing relief to thousands of additional students .
Protect students from discrimination and violence . Senator Klobuchar will repeal Title IX regulations proposed under the Trump Administration and restore guidance reminding universities of their obligation to protect students from sexual violence .
Rebuild our relationship with our allies and restore America ’ s standing in the world . To rebuild the relationship with our allies that President Trump has undermined , Senator Klobuchar ’ s first international trips as President will be to Canada and Europe to begin restoring trust with our most important allies .
Congress needs this information to understand whether there is a problem and when investment fund ownership is anticompetitive or benign .
So , overall , he ’ s in the red on antitrust litigation .
Combating the humanitarian crisis in Yemen . The situation in Yemen constitutes another of the world ’ s worst humanitarian crises . Out of a total population of 29 million , over 22 million Yemenis are in need of assistance and over 11 million are in acute need . Ongoing hostilities between the Saudi Arabia led coalition and Houthi forces have only exacerbated the humanitarian crisis . We have a responsibility to both support our allies in the region and ensure humanitarian aid reaches those who need it . Doing so realizes our moral obligation and enhances our security by thwarting those who wish to radicalize the youth in the region . In an effort to further the conversation in Congress about the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Yemen I voted in favor of debating a resolution to disapprove of the sale of weapons to Saudi Arabia . I have also voted in favor of debating legislation to repeal the existing authorizations for the use of military force so that Congress can carry out its Constitutional mandate to authorize the use of military force . In addition , I strongly supported legislation to end U . S . support for the Saudi - led coalition military action in Yemen , which passed the Senate by a vote of 56 to 41 on December 13 , 2018 .
