China imposes contractual restrictions on the licensing of intellectual property and foreign technology into their country but does not put the same restrictions on contracts between two Chinese enterprises .
and Ryan is looking down right now you know that and he ' s very happy because I think he just broke a record first the Bible teaches us there is no greater act of love than to lay down one ' s life for one ' s friends Ryan lay down his life for his friends for his country and for our freedom and we will never forget Ryan to those allies who wonder what kind of a friend America will be look no further than the heroes who wear a uniform our foreign policy calls for a direct robust
The President ' s Administration conducted 82 antidumping and countervailing duty investigations in 2017 .
dollars in Mexico instead not good now Ford announces a few weeks ago that Ford is going to build a 2 . 5 billion dollar car and truck and parts manufacturing plant in Mexico 2 . 5 billion is going to be one of the largest in the world Ford good company so I announced that I ' m running for president I would one of the early things I would do probably before I even got in and I wouldn ' t even use you know I have I know the smartest negotiators in the world I
no choice at all there ' s no choice left remember when you were told that you could keep your doctor and keep your plan we now know that all of those promises have been totally broken Obamacare is collapsing and we must act decisively to protect all Americans action is not a choice it is a necessity so I am calling on all Democrats and Republicans in Congress to work with us to save Americans from this imploding Obamacare disaster
over 43 million Americans are on food stamps more than one in five people in their prime working years are not working we have the worst financial recovery in 65 years in the last eight years the past administration has put on more new debt than nearly all of the other presidents combined we ' ve lost more than one - fourth of our manufacturing jobs since NAFTA was approved and we ' ve lost 60 , 000 factories since China joined the World Trade
small office with my father in brooklyn and queens and my father said and i love my father I learned so much he was a great negotiator I learned so much just sitting at his feet playing with blocks listening to him negotiate with subcontractors but I learned a lot but he used to say Donald don ' t go into manhattan that ' s the big leagues we don ' t know anything about that don ' t do it I said dad I got to go into manhattan I got to build those big buildings I
protections to provide things that were unacceptable to us and for private property and for the rule of law two decades later this theory has been tested and proven completely wrong not only has China declined to adopt promised reforms it has embraced an economic model dependent on massive market barriers heavy state subsidies currency manipulation product dumping forced technology transfers and the theft of intellectual property
CRACKING DOWN ON CHINA FOR ITS TRADE CHEATING
This was the best they ' ve got . Adam Schiff is a sick puppy . He is a -- it ' s pretty incredible . Now , what you ' re going to see , I predict , will be perhaps the biggest scandal in the history of our country , political scandal . But I guess that ' s the biggest , because what ' s more important than a political --?
social work we want all children to be able to break the cycle of poverty just like danisha but to break the cycle of poverty we must also break the cycle of violence the murder rate in 2015 experienced its largest single year increase in nearly half a century in Chicago more than 4 , 000 people were shot last year alone and the murder rate so far this year has been even higher this is not acceptable in our society
I ' ll tell you what . You have a lot of very , very bad people . And , you know , a lot of people say , " deep state ." I don ' t like to use the word " deep state ." So I just say they ' re really bad and sick people .
farmers and vineyards won ' t be affected because lawful and regulated entry into our country will be easy and consistent that is our plan border security daca TPS and many other things straightforward fair reasonable and common - sense with lots of compromise Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has pledged to bring this bill to a vote this week in the United States Senate our proposal is not intended to solve all of our immigration challenges this
shot for their children and a fair hearing for their concerns but then the quiet voices became a loud chorus as thousands of citizens now spoke out together from cities small and large all across our country finally the chorus became an earthquake and the people turned out by the tens of millions and they were all united by one very simple but crucial demand that America must put its own citizens first because only then can we
President Trump directed the State Department to send aid through USAID directly to Christians and other minorities facing genocide in the Middle East .
and Ivanka and Eric and Tiffany and baron I love you and I thank you and especially for putting up with all of those hours this was tough this was tough this political stuff is nasty and it ' s tough so I want to thank my family very much really fantastic thank you all thank you all and Lara unbelievable job unbelievable Vanessa thank you thank you very much what a great group you ' ve all given me such incredible support and I
dollars overseas while America ' s infrastructure has fallen into disrepair and decay we ' ve made other countries rich while the wealth strength and confidence of our country has dissipated over the horizon one by one the factory shuttered and left our shores with not even a thought about the millions and millions of American workers that were left behind the wealth of our middle class has been ripped from their homes and then redistributed all across the
My fellow Americans , tonight I ' m speaking to you because there is a growing humanitarian and security crisis at our southern border .
runs menacing behavior continues sanctions will not be lifted they will be tightened Iran ' s leaders will have turned a proud nation into just another cautionary tale of what happens when a ruling class abandons its people and embarks on a crusade for personal power and riches for 40 years the world has listened to Iran ' s rulers as they lash out at everyone else for the problems they alone have created they conduct ritual chants of death to
false sense of virtue before the lives well - being and countless innocent people when you undermine border security you are undermining human rights and human dignity many of the countries here today are coping with the challenges of uncontrolled migration each of you has the absolute right to protect your borders and so of course there ' s our country today we must resolve to work together to end human smuggling and human
The border wall would very quickly pay for itself . The cost of illegal drugs exceeds $ 500 billion a year . Vastly more than the $ 5 . 7 billion we have requested from Congress . The wall will also be paid for indirectly by the great new trade deal we have made with Mexico .
It ' s my first point , is that we have , today , strategy clarifications to be done . It ' s impossible just to say ,  ' We have to put money , we have to put soldiers .  ' We have to be clear on the fundamentals of what NATO should be . And this is not the case today . What about peace in Europe ? I want clarification about that .
They -- you know , they ' re less than 1 percent . You have a couple that are less than 1 percent . Not fair . So NATO has made a lot of progress over the last three years , and the word  ' flexibility ' is very important . They ' re not just looking at one area now ; they ' re looking at the world . And that ' s very important .
and we would use it to light up the world I am here tonight to deliver a message of unity and strength and it is a message deeply delivered from my heart a new chapter of American greatness is now beginning a new national pride is sweeping across our nation and a new surge of optimism is placing impossible dreams firmly within our grasp what we are witnessing today is the renewal of the American spirit our allies will find that America
is nothing new this is a these are proposals that have come up in the past basically it gives dreamers in the United States so these are people who came to the United States were taken before the age of 16 and before 2007 were brought here by their parents it gives them status a temporary worker permits a social security cards prevent protection from deportation there are seven hundred and forty thousand so - called dreamers here in the US he
billions of dollars are being paid to our treasury the American people are absolutely committed to restoring balance to our relationship with China hopefully we can reach an agreement that will be beneficial for both countries but as I have made very clear I will not accept a bad deal for the American people as we endeavor to stabilize our relationship we ' re also carefully monitoring the
United States and will create tens of thousands of new American jobs the stock market has gained almost three trillion dollars in value since the election on November 8 th a record we ' ve saved taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars by bringing down the price of fantastic and it is a fantastic new f - 35 jet fighter and we ' ll be saving billions more on contracts all across our government we have placed a hiring freeze or non - military and non - essential
middle class and they will do it quickly and they will be very very happy indeed I believe that real and positive immigration reform is possible as long as we focus on the following goals to improve jobs and wages for Americans to strengthen our nation ' s security and to restore respect for our laws if we are guided by the well - being of American citizens that I believe Republicans and Democrats can work together to achieve an outcome that has eluded our country
never believed in permanent enemies we want partners not adversaries America knows that while anyone can make war only the most courageous can choose peace for this same reason we have pursued bold diplomacy on the Korean Peninsula I have told Kim jong - un what I truly believe that like Iran his country is full of tremendous untapped potential but that you realize that promise North Korea must denuclearize around the world our message is clear
they want not the plan forced on them by our government thirdly we should give our state governor ' s the resources and flexibility they need with Medicaid to make sure no one is left out fourth we should implement legal reforms that protect patients and doctors from unnecessary costs that drive up the price of insurance and work to bring down the artificially high price of drugs and bring them down immediately
even in free nations we see alarming signs and new challenges to Liberty a small number of social media platforms are acquiring immense power over what we can see and over what we are allowed to say a permanent political class is openly disdainful dismissive and defiant of the will of the people a faceless bureaucracy operates in secret and weakens democratic rule media and academic institutions push flat - out assaults on our histories traditions and
country ' s builders and artists and inventors showed off their wonderful creations Alexander Graham Bell displayed his telephone for the first time Remington unveiled the first typewriter an early attempt was made an electric light Thomas Edison showed an automatic Telegraph and an electric pen imagine the wonders our country could know in America ' s two hundred and fiftieth year think of the marvels we can achieve if
Our proposal was developed by law enforcement professionals and border agents at the Department of Homeland Security . These are the resources they have requested to properly perform their mission and keep America safe . In fact , safer than ever before .
The Trump Administration made enforcement of U . S . trade laws a top priority and has continually exercised its ability to block harmful trade practices and exchanges .
You ' re dealing at the highest levels of government . They were spying on my campaign . This is my opinion . I said it a long time ago . Remember when I put out a tweet and I talked about the " wiretapping " in quotes , meaning modern day version of whatever wiretapping may be . And all hell broke loose .
Upon entering office , the Trump Administration began renegotiations of trade agreements that contribute to the U . S . trade deficit and harmed American workers .
America believe that every child born and unborn is a sacred gift from God there is no circumstance under which the United States will allow international entries to trample on the rights of our citizens including the right to self - defense that is why this year I announced that we will never ratify the UN arms trade treaty which would threaten the liberties of law - abiding American citizens the United States will always uphold our constitutional right
and independent nations who protect their citizens respect their neighbors and honor the differences that make each country special and unique it is why we in the United States have embarked on an exciting program of national renewal and everything we do we are focused on empowering the dreams and aspirations of our citizens thanks to our pro - growth economic policies our domestic unemployment rate reached its lowest level in over half a century
also is vital to its national security to pursue women ' s economic development guided by these principles my administration launched the women ' s global development and prosperity initiatives the W GDP is the first - ever government - wide approach to women ' s economic empowerment working to ensure that women all over the planet had the legal right to own and inherit property work in the same industries has been travel freely and access credit and
I think that if you look at what ' s going on in Iran , they have massive riots . They ' re having protests all over the country . And they ' re killing a lot of people . Everybody knows that . That ' s why they turned off their Internet systems , so nobody can find out . But if the media would go there -- and it ' s , I think , very hard for the media to go there , frankly , right now .
job I don ' t need the rhetoric I want a job and that ' s what ' s happening and it ' s going to get worse because remember Obamacare really kicks in in 16 2016 Obama is going to be out playing golf he might even be on one of my courses i would invite him I actually would say I have the best courses in the world so I ' d say you know what if you want to see I have one right next to the white house right on the Potomac if he ' d like to play that ' s fine in fact I ' d love him to
probably not as successful as everybody thinks so I said to myself you know nobody ' s ever going to know unless I run because I ' m really proud of my success I really am I ' ve employed I ' ve employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime that means medical that means education that means everything so a large accounting firm in my accountants have been working for months because it ' s big and complex and they put together a
The Trump Administration withdrew from UNESCO to show it would not stand for the anti - Israel bias of the organization .
Well , it certainly does . And they were spying on my campaign and it went right up to the top . And everybody knows it . And now we ' re going to find out . You have Bull Durham , who ' s supposed to be the toughest . I ' ve never met him . Never spoke to him . But he ' s supposed to be the smartest and th '  ' e best . And he works for Bill Barr , who is a great attorney general .
So my conversation was a perfect conversation . The Ukrainian president said , " What are they talking about ?" There must think we ' re nuts in this country . And this conversation was flawless . It was appropriate . It was perfect . It was nice . It was everything . And they even said that . They came out and said it . Now , compare that -- as they try to impeach , and by the way , they ' ve looked like fools over the last five days , as these interviews were -- these were their witnesses .
In Saudi Arabia , President Trump pushed for a coalition of nations to confront Iran and attended the opening of the Global Center for Combating Extremist Ideology .
exploited by ruthless coyotes and vicious cartels and gangs one in three women is sexually assaulted on the dangerous journey north in fact many loving mothers give their young daughters birth control pills for the long journey up to the United States because they know they may be raped or sexually a constant or assaulted nearly 50 migrants a day are being referred for urgent medical care vast quantities of lethal narcotics are flooding through
ongoing tragedy on our southern border in recent weeks we have met with large numbers of Democrat lawmakers to hear their ideas and suggestions by incorporating the priorities of rank - and - file democrats in our plan we hope they will offer their enthusiastic support and I think many will this is a common - sense compromise both parties should embrace the radical left can never control our borders I will never let it happen walls are not amoral in
and calls for one of the largest increases in national defense spending in American history my budget will also increase funding for our veterans our veterans have delivered for this nation and now we must deliver for them the challenges we face as a nation are great but our people are even greater and none are greater or braver than those who fight for America in uniform we are blessed to be joined tonight by Corrine Owens the widow of US Navy
Democrats in Congress have refused to acknowledge the crisis and they have refused to provide our brave border agents with the tools they desperately need to protect our families and our nation .
The investigation concluded that China forces U . S . companies seeking to license technologies to Chinese entities to do so on non - market based terms .
special operator senior Chief William Ryan Owens Ryan died as he lived a warrior and a hero battling against terrorism and securing our nation I just spoke to our great general mattis just now who reconfirmed that and I quote Ryan was a part of a highly successful raid that generated large amounts of vital intelligence that will lead to many more victories in the future against our enemy Ryan ' s legacy is etched into eternity thank you
you to know that we will never stop fighting for justice your loved ones will never ever be forgotten we will always honor their memory finally to keep America safe we must provide the men and women of the United States military with the tools they need to prevent war if they must they have to fight and they only have to win I am sending Congress a budget that rebuilds the military eliminates the defense sequester
with any other nation we desire peace cooperation and mutual gain with all but I will never fail to defend America ' s interests one of the greatest security threats facing peace - loving nations today is the repressive regime in Iran the regime ' s record of death and destruction is well known to us all not only is Iran the world ' s number one state sponsor of terrorism but Iran ' s leaders are fueling the tragic wars in both Syria and Yemen at the same time
So NATO , which was really heading in the wrong direction three years ago -- it was heading down . If you look at a graph , it was to a point where I don ' t think they could have gone on much longer . Now it ' s actually very strong and getting stronger . Many people are committed to that 2 percent . And ultimately , I think the 2 percent will be raised .
wages are rising incomes are soaring and 2 . 5 million Americans have been lifted out of poverty in less than three years as we rebuild the unrivaled might of the American military we are also revitalizing our alliances by making it very clear that all of our partners are expected to pay their fair share of the tremendous defense burden which the United States has borne in the past at the center of our vision for national renewal is an ambitious
technology have the power to excise new and disturbing forms of suppression and domination for this reason the United States is taking steps to better screen foreign technology and investments and to protect our data and our security we urge every nation president to do the same freedom and democracy must be constantly guarded and protected both abroad and from within we must always be skeptical of those who want conformity and control
Our plan also contains an urgent request for humanitarian assistance and medical support . Furthermore , we have asked Congress to close border security loopholes so that illegal immigrant children can be safely and humanely returned back home .
President Trump went on a historic 12 - day tour through Asia , including visits to five countries and attended three regional summits to promote America ' s interests .
is unbelievable how bad you know we ' re building on Pennsylvania Avenue the old post office we ' re converting it into one of the world ' s great hotels going to be the best hotel in Washington DC we got it from the general services administration in Washington the Obama administration we got it it was the most highly sought after all one of them but I think the most highly sought after project in the history of General Services we got it people were shocked
extension will give them access to work permits Social Security numbers and protection from deportation most importantly secondly our proposal provides a three - year extension of temporary protected status or TPS this means that 300 , 000 immigrants whose protective status is facing expiration will now have three more years of certainty so that Congress can work on a larger immigration deal which everybody wants Republicans and Democrats and our
also said that these extra protections or deportation protections would extend to their other sorry they ' re called a temporary protection status those with temporary protection status those working in the United States already so those are some of the things that he offered in exchange for his wall and of course he repeated what he ' s been saying for months now that the borders are unprotected that crime criminals and drugs are flowing
With the completion of the United States - Mexico - Canada trade agreement , the Trump Administration successfully fulfilled President Trump ' s promise to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement .
Thank you very much , everybody . We ' re having a great year . This has been an amazing year for our economy . And meeting these athletes -- they ' re real athletes , I can tell you . It ' s a tremendous achievement . And we ' re bringing many of them over to the Oval Office . I guess all of them . So far , nobody has turned that one down -- [ Laughter ] -- because it is a special place .
or otherwise known as that wall that he ' s been promising now we know that the CBC ' s Melissa Kent was watching that address from the bureau in New York and she joins us now I just highlighted some of the points he certainly had a lot to say maybe you can break it down for us a little bit more yeah so you hit on some of the points money money for humanitarian help drug detection technology additional border guards I think you mentioned judge judge teams to
After an investigation , the Trump Administration found that global dumping of steel and aluminum had critically weakened the United States capacity to produce steel and aluminum in times with national security implications .
four billion dollars i said i don ' t need it I don ' t want it and I ' ve been there I don ' t want it but in two seconds they give me whatever i wanted so i have a total net worth and now with the increase it will be well over ten billion dollars but here a total net worth of eight billion net worth not assets not liability a net worth after all debt after all expenses the greatest assets of Trump Tower 12 I in the avenue of the americas bank of
china 1 . 3 trillion dollars we owe Japan more than that so they come in they take our jobs they take our money and then they load us back the money and we pay them an interest and then the dollar goes up so their deals even better how stupid our own leaders how stupid are these politicians to allow this to happen how stupid are they I ' m going to tell you thank you i ' m going to tell you a couple of stories about trade because I ' m totally against
and finally the time has come to give Americans the freedom to purchase health insurance across state lines which will create a truly competitive national marketplace that will bring costs way down and provide far better care so important everything that is broken in our country can be fixed every problem can be solved and every hurting family can find healing and hope our citizens deserve this and so much more so why not join forces and finally get
make it really work nobody nobody will be pushing us around I will stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons and we won ' t be using a man like secretary Kerry that has absolutely no concept of negotiation who ' s making a horrible and laughable deal who ' s just being tapped along as they make weapons right now and then goes into a bicycle race at 72 years old and falls and breaks his leg I won ' t be doing that and I promise I will never be in a bicycle race that i can
America ' s goal is lasting America ' s goal is harmony and america ' s goal is not to go with these endless wars wars that never end with that gold in mind my administration is also pursuing the hope of a brighter future in Afghanistan unfortunately the Taliban has chosen to continue their savage attacks we will continue to work with our coalition of Afghan partners to stamp out terrorism and we will never stop working to make peace a reality here in the Western
duty in California they were pillars of their community these brave men were viciously gunned down by an illegal immigrant with a criminal record and two prior deportations should have never been in our country sitting with Susan is her daughter Jenna Jenna I want you to know that your father was a hero and that tonight you have the love of an entire country supporting you and praying for you to Jamil Jana Susan and Jessica I want
of American justice to fill his seat we have chosen judge Neal Gorsuch a man of incredible skill and deep devotion to the law he was confirmed unanimously by the Court of Appeals and I am asking the Senate to swiftly approve his nomination tonight as I outlined the next steps we must take as a country we must honestly acknowledge the circumstances we inherited 94 million Americans are out of the labor force over 43 million people are now living in poverty and
best and brightest to leverage their tremendous talent for the benefit of all it ' s going to happen we have a great economic plan we will double our growth and have the strongest economy anywhere in the world at the same time we will get along with all other nations willing to get along with us we will have great relationships we expect to have great great relationships no dream is too big no challenge is too great nothing we want for our future is beyond our reach
sides in Washington must simply come together listen to each other put down their armor build trust reach across the aisle and find solutions it is time to reclaim our future from the extreme voices who fear compromise and demand open borders which means drugs pouring in human trafficking and a lot of crime that is why I am here today to break the logjam and provide Congress with a path forward to end the government shutdown and solve the crisis on the southern
of the world but we do so with the understanding that it is the right of all nations to put their own interests first we do not seek to impose our way of life on anyone but rather to let it shine as an example we will shine for everyone to follow we will reinforce old alliances and form new ones and unite the civilized world against radical Islamic terrorism which we will eradicate completely from the face of the earth at the bedrock of our
leave early and play that would be a very good thing but obamacare kicks in in 2016 really big lake it is going to be amazingly destructive doctors acquitting I have a friend who ' s a doctor and he said to me the other day Donald I never saw anything like it I have more accountants than I have nurses it ' s a disaster my patients are beside themselves they had a plan that was good they have no plan now we have to repeal Obamacare and it
and our partnerships will be stronger with God ' s help together we will cast off the enemies of Liberty and overcome the oppressors of dignity we will set new standards of living and reached new heights of human achievement we will rediscover ultros unravel old mysteries and make thrilling new breakthroughs and we will find more beautiful friendship and more harmony among nations than ever before my fellow leaders the path to peace and
first Republican President Abraham Lincoln warned that the abandonment of the protective policy by the American government will produce want and ruin among our people Lincoln was right and it ' s time we heeded his advice and his words I am NOT going to let America and it ' s great companies and workers be taken advantage of us any longer they have taken advantage of our country no longer I ' m going to bring back millions of jobs protecting our workers also
The USMCA is a modern trade agreement that opens new markets for U . S . farmers and manufacturers , will encourage increased manufacturing in the U . S ., and allow workers and small businesses to flourish .
situation in Hong Kong the world fully expects that the Chinese government will honor its binding treaty made with the British and registered with the United Nations in which China commits to protect Hong Kong ' s freedom legal system and democratic ways of life how China chooses to handle the situation will say a great deal about its role in the world in the future we are all counting on President Xi as a great leader the United States does not seek conflict
here are the principles that you guide Congress as we move to create a better health care system for all Americans first we should ensure that Americans with pre - existing conditions have access to coverage and that we have a stable transition for Americans currently enrolled in the health care exchanges secondly we should help Americans purchase their own coverage through the use of tax credits and expanded health savings accounts but it must be the plan
In the last two years , ICE officers made 266 , 000 arrests of aliens with criminal records including those charged or convicted of 100 , 000 assaults , 30 , 000 sex crimes , and 4 , 000 violent killings . Over the years , thousands of Americans have been brutally killed by those who illegally entered our country and thousands more lives will be lost if we don ' t act right now .
across the border and greater and greater numbers of that only by building this physical wall will the numbers of crimes caused by these illegal immigrants and the and the the the drug problems in the United States be reduced he even said almost by half if they built the wall certainly those are some key points in that extension that concession that he was making for about three years when it comes to the so - called dreamers and those individuals
The federal government remains shut down for one reason , and one reason only , because Democrats will not fund border security . My administration is doing everything in our power to help those impacted by the situation , but the only solution is for Democrats to pass a spending bill that defends our borders and reopens the government .
This was a 58 percent increase in investigations over 2016 .
home you will not be released into our country as long as I am President of the United States we will enforce our laws and protect our borders for all of the countries of the Western Hemisphere our goal is to help people invest in the bright futures of their own nation our region is full of such incredible promise dreams waiting to be built a national destinies for all and they are waiting also to be pursued throughout the hemisphere there
future we must enrich the mind and the souls of every American child education is the civil rights issue of our time I am calling upon members of both parties to pass an education bill that funds school choice could disadvantaged youth including millions of African American and Latino children these families should be free to choose the public private charter magnet religious or homeschool that is right for them
negotiator we have take a look at the deal he ' s making with Iran he makes that deal Israel maybe won ' t exist very long it ' s a disaster and we have to protect Israel but so we need people I ' m a free trader but the problem with free trade is you need really talented people to negotiate for you if you don ' t have talented people if you don ' t have great leadership if you don ' t have people that know business not just a political hack that got the job because he made a
Jared Laura and Eric I ' m very proud of my family they ' re great family so the reporter said to me the other day but mr . Trump you ' re not a nice person how can you get people to vote for you i say i don ' t know i said i think that number one I am a nice person give a lot of money away to charities and other things I think I ' m actually a very nice person but I said this is going to be an election that ' s based on competence because people are tired of these nice
jobs we will bring back our borders we will bring back our wealth and we will bring back our dreams we will build new roads and highways and bridges and airports and tunnels and railways all across our wonderful nation we will get our people off of welfare and back to work rebuilding our country with American hands and American labor we will follow two simple rules by American and hire American we will seek friendship and goodwill with the nations
And that ' s a lot . And they ' re now stepping up again . It ' s going to be $ 400 billion over a very short -- we have commitments for $ 400 billion . And we just left the Secretary General . And he -- he ' s got some things that are very important . And I discussed with him the flexibility , so that we have it not just with one area of the world -- you and I discuss this all the time -- we have all areas of the world , because NATO is a lot different than it was .
The State Department announced the new US Embassy in Israel would move to Jerusalem .
members of our community their friends and neighbors their mothers and fathers sons and daughters and they leave behind loved ones every day who worry about whether or not they ' ll come home safe and sound we must support the incredible men and women of law enforcement and we must support the victims of crime I have ordered the department of homeland security to create an office to serve American victims the office is called voice victims of immigration
We have to be respectful these are our soldiers . The first burden we share , the first cost we pay , is our soldiers ' lives . And I do believe that , in such circumstances , we do pay what we have to pay for collective security . When I look at the situation in Syria , in Iraq , but as well as Sahel , France is definitely present .
get a call the next day from the head of Ford they ' ll say please reconsider I ' ll say no he ' ll say mr . president we ' ve decided to move the plant back to the United States we ' re not going to build it in Mexico that ' s it they have no choice they have no choice there are hundreds of things like that I ' ll give you another example Saudi Arabia they make billion dollars a day a billion dollars a day i love the Saudis many are in this
will tell you that we have a large group of people you know they kept saying we have a small staff that ' s so small look at all the people that we have look at all of these people and Kellyanne and Chris and Rudy and Steve and David we have got we have got tremendously talented people up here and I want to tell you it ' s been it ' s been very very special I want to give a very special thanks to our former Mayor Rudy Giuliani unbelievable he traveled with us and he
mr . president mr . secretary general distinguished delegates ambassadors and world leaders seven decades of history have passed through this hall in all of their richness and drama where I stand the world has heard from presidents and premiers at the height of the Cold War we have seen the foundation of nations we have seen the ringleaders of revolution we have beheld saints who inspired us with hope rebels who stirred us with passion and heroes who
and meaningful engagement with the world it is American leadership based on vital security interests that we share with our allies all across the globe we strongly support NATO an alliance forged through the bonds of two world wars that dethrone fascism and the cold and defeated communism but our partners must meet their financial obligations and now based on our very strong and frank discussions they are beginning to do just that in
with temporary protected status and just a final point that we ' ll make here before we let Melissa go and thank you very much for covering that all off for us as we know that he also mentioned he wants the Senate majority leader to bring that bill to a vote this week which would if it is passed essentially potentially and the months - long now government shutdown so thank you again Melissa Kent we know we ' ll have more from you in this coverage coming up that
enforce our laws I would ask you this one question what would you say to the American family that loses their jobs their income or their loved one because America refused to uphold its laws and defend its borders our obligation is to serve protect and defend the citizens of the United States we are also taking strong measures to protect our nation from radical Islamic terrorism according to data provided by the
One of President Trump ' s first actions was to withdraw the United States from the Trans - Pacific Partnership , advancing his agenda to protect American workers .
now our country needs our country needs a truly great leader and we need a truly great leader now we need a leader that wrote the art of the deal we need a leader that can bring back our jobs can bring back our manufacturing can bring back our military can take care of our vets our vets have been abandoned and we also need a cheerleader you know when President Obama was elected I said well the one thing I think he ' ll do well I
and also trade secrets on a grand scale as just one example I recently met the CEO of a terrific American company micron technology at the white house micron produces memory chips used in countless electronics to advance the Chinese government ' s five - year economic plan a company owned by the Chinese state allegedly stole microns designs valued at up to eight point seven billion dollars soon the Chinese company obtains patents for nearly an identical
attempt to erase them or replace them looking around and all over is large magnificent planet the truth is plain to see if you want freedom take pride in your country if you want democracy hold on to your sovereignty and if you want peace love your nation wise leaders always put the good of their own people and their own country first the future does not belong to globalists the future belongs to Patriots the future belongs to sovereign
so mistreated for so long that they become used to it that it ' s very hard to do business with other countries because they tax our goods at such a high rate they said that in the case of another country they tax their motorcycles at 100 % they weren ' t even asking for a change but I am I believe I believe strongly in free trade but it also has to be fair trade it ' s been a long time since we had fair trade the
said this I said rights and I know it I know it look at all those people over there I know it rights is a superstar but I said they can ' t call you a superstar rights unless we win because you can ' t be called a superstar like Secretariat if Secretariat came in second Secretariat would not have that big beautiful bronze bus at the track at Belmont but I ' ll tell you rights is really a star and he is the hardest - working guy
own corrupt communist rule since I last spoke in this hall the United States and our partners have built a historic coalition of 55 countries that recognize the legitimate government of Venezuela - the Venezuelans trapped in this nightmare please know that all of America is united behind you the United States has vast quantities of humanitarian aid ready and waiting to be delivered we ' re watching the Venezuela situation very
very public resources that our poorest citizens rely upon according to the National Academy of Sciences our current immigration system costs American taxpayers many billions of dollars a year switching away from this current system of lower skilled immigration and instead adopting a merit - based system we will have so many more benefits it will save countless dollars raise workers wages and help struggling families including immigrant families enter the
third world country you look at the patches in the 40 year old floor they throw down asphalt and they throw you look at these airports we are like a third - world country and I come in from China and I come in from guitar and I come in from different places and they have the most incredible airports in the world you come back to this country and you have LAX disaster you have all of these disasters airports we have to rebuild our infrastructure
the world all across the world the only long - term solution for these humanitarian disasters in many cases is to create the conditions where displaced persons can safely return home and begin the long long process of rebuilding America is willing to find new friends and to forge new partnerships where shared interests align we want harmony and stability not war and conflict we want peace wherever peace can be found America is friends today with former
we will expand treatment for those who have become so badly addicted at the same time my administration has answered the pleas of the American people for immigration enforcement and border security by finally enforcing our immigration laws we will raise wages help the unemployed save billions and billions of dollars and make our communities safer for everyone we want all Americans to succeed but that can ' t happen in an environment of
After the decision of the end of the INF Treaty , we have to build something new . Because now this is a risk for Germany , France , and a lot of European countries to have new missiles coming from Russia , exposing us . We need such a clarification . And I want the European component to be part of the future negotiations of such a new INF Treaty .
kind of mindset that you need to make this country great again so ladies and gentlemen I am officially running for president of the United States and we are going to make our country great again it can happen our country has tremendous potential we have tremendous people we have people that aren ' t working we are people that have no incentive to work but they ' re going to have incentive to work because the greatest social program
Since President Trump was sworn into office , the Department of Commerce has initiated 79 antidumping and countervailing duties ( AD / CVD ) investigations .
It ' s up to her . It ' s actually -- a single individual has the -- the Speaker of the House -- it ' s that person ' s decision , and she ' s the Speaker of the House . And it ' s a great deal for Mexico and for Canada and for the United States . And it ' s a lot of jobs for everybody , and it replaces a deal that ' s really a lousy deal , a bad deal , for -- I can tell you -- I can ' t refer to you , but I would say , for the United States , that the deal that we have right now is terrible -- NAFTA . Terrible .
And that ' s the way we looked at it right from the beginning . So we hope that ' s the case . Again , congratulations . We ' re going to be talking about a number of subjects , including additional trade to that , and the military and the military presence . And it ' s great being at NATO . We had some real success , I think , and some very successful talks having to do with NATO . As you know , a lot of the countries have stepped up and they ' re putting in at least 130 -- probably the exact number is $ 131 billion -- more .
progress and freedom and justice and a better world for all humanity begins at home thank you god bless you god bless the nations of the world and god bless america thank you very much hey NBC News viewers thanks for checking out our YouTube channel subscribe by clicking on that button down here and click on any of the videos over here to watch the latest interviews show highlights and digital exclusives thanks for watching
we simply set free the dreams of our people cures to the illnesses that have always plagued us are not too much to hope American footprints on distant worlds are not too big a dream millions lifted from welfare to work is not too much to expect and streets where mothers are safe from fear schools where children learn in peace and jobs where Americans prosper and grow are not too much to ask when we have all of this we will have
years ago i said and i love the military and i want to have the strongest military that we ' ve ever had and we needed more now than ever but I said don ' t hit iraq because you ' re going to totally destabilize the Middle East Iran is going to take over the Middle East Iran and somebody else will get the oil and it turned out that Iran is now taking over a rack think of it Iran is taking over Iraq and they ' re taking it over big league we spent two trillion
already protected by natural barriers such as mountains and water we already have many miles of barrier including 115 miles that we are currently building or under contract it will be done quickly our request will add another 230 miles this year in the areas our border agents most urgently need it will have an unbelievable impact if we build a powerful and fully designed see - through steel barrier on our southern border the crime rate and drug problem in our
gotta do it dad I ' ve got to do it and after four or five years in Brooklyn I ventured into Manhattan and did a lot of great deals the grand hyatt hotel I was responsible for the convention center on the west side I did a lot of great deals and I did him early and young and now I ' m building all over the world and I love what I ' m doing but they all said a lot of the pundits on television well Donald will never run and what are the main reasons is he ' s private and he ' s
This is the tragic reality of illegal immigration on our southern border . This is the cycle of human suffering that I am determined to end . My administration has presented Congress with a detailed proposal to secure the border and stop the criminal gangs , drug smugglers , and human traffickers . It ' s a tremendous problem .
backgrounds and beliefs who want and expect our government to serve the people and serve the people it will working together we will begin the urgent task of rebuilding our nation and renewing the American dream I ' ve spent my entire life and business looking at the untapped potential in projects and in people all over the world that is now what I want to do for our country tremendous potential I ' ve got to know our country so well
And I do share this statement . That ' s why I ' m a strong supporter of a stronger European component in NATO , which is exactly what we have done . So , in terms of cost sharing , we are investing 1 . 9 percent of our GDP . We are increasing our GDP . We will be at [ Inaudible ]. But when we speak about NATO , it ' s not just about money .
The President kept his promise to roll back the Obama Administration ' s bad deal on Cuba that benefited the Cuban regime at the expense of the Cuban people .
who want only to rule themselves I have the immense privilege of addressing you today as the elected leader of a nation that prizes liberty independence and self - government above all the United States after having spent over two - and - a - half trillion dollars since my election to completely rebuild our great military is also by far the world ' s powerful nation hopefully it will never have to use this power Americans know that in a world where others seek
generals and admirals that have endorsed our campaign and there ' s special people and it ' s really an honor we have 22 Congressional Medal of Honor recipients we have just tremendous people a very special person who believed me and you know I ' d read reports that I wasn ' t getting along with him I never had a bad second with him he ' s an unbelievable star he is that ' s right how did you possibly guess so let me tell you about rights and I ' ve
born in the urban sprawl of Detroit or the windswept plains of Nebraska they look up at the same night sky they fill their heart with the same dreams and they are infused with the breath of life by the same Almighty Creator so to all Americans in every city near and far small and large from Mountain to mountain from ocean to ocean hear these words you will never be ignored again your voice your hopes and your dreams
Central American miners to apply for asylum in their home countries and reform to promote family reunification for unaccompanied children thousands of whom wind up on our border doorstep to physically secure our border the plan includes 5 . 7 billion dollars for a strategic deployment of physical barriers or a wall this is not a 2 , 000 mile concrete structure from sea to sea these are steel barriers in high priority locations much of the border is
Over the last several years I have met with dozens of families whose loved ones were stolen by illegal immigration . I have held the hands of the weeping mothers and embraced the grief stricken fathers . So sad , so terrible . I will never forget the pain in their eyes , the tremble in their voices , and the sadness gripping their souls . How much more American blood must we shed before Congress does its job ?
This is a humanitarian crisis . A crisis of the heart , and a crisis of the soul . Last month , 20 , 000 migrant children were illegally brought into the United States , a dramatic increase . These children are used as human pawns by vicious coyotes and ruthless gangs . One in three women are sexually assaulted on the dangerous trek up through Mexico . Women and children are the biggest victims , by far , of our broken system .
system will be designed to improve your lives make your community safer and make our nation more prosperous and secure for generations to come thank you and God bless america thank you so we were just listening in there to the US president Donald Trump as he gave an address at the White House today to address the ongoing government shutdown and of course that border wall which was a cornerstone of his campaign promises when he was a candidate part of
radical activists and non - governmental organizations that promote human smuggling these groups encourage illegal migration and demand your ratio of national borders today I have a message for those open border activists who cloak themselves in the rhetoric of social justice your policies are not just your policies are cruel and evil you are empowering criminal organizations that prey on innocent men women and children you put your own
privilege of few our founders gave us a system designed to restrain this dangerous impulse they chose to entrust American power to those most invested in the fate of our nation a proud and fiercely independent people the true good of the nation can only be pursued by those who love it by citizens who are rooted in its history who are nourished by its culture committed to its values attached to its people and who know that his future is
This was the first Section 301 investigation since 2013 .
country will we leave for our children I will not allow the mistakes of recent decades past to define the course of our future for too long we ' ve watched our middle class shrink as we ' ve explored it our jobs and wealth to foreign countries we financed and built one global project after another but ignored the fates of our children in the inner cities of Chicago Baltimore Detroit and so many other places throughout our land we ' ve
believe me but they ' re killing us economically the US has become a dumping ground for everybody else ' s problems thank you it ' s true and these are the best in the finest when Mexico sends its people they ' re not sending their best they ' re not sending you they ' re not sending you they ' re sending people that have lots of problems and they ' re bringing those problems with us they ' re bringing drugs they ' re bringing crime they ' re rapists and some I assume are
So he made up my phone call . He made it up . He made up a phone call . And then when I released it , everybody was embarrassed . And crazy Nancy Pelosi , who , by the way , is going to go down as the worst speaker in the history of the House of Representatives , she hasn ' t done anything . Well , she said she ' s like paralyzed .
is a job and they ' ll be proud and they ' ll love it and they ' ll make much more money than they would have ever made and they ' ll be they ' ll be doing so well and we ' re going to be thriving as a country thriving it can happen I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created I tell you that I ' ll bring back our jobs from China from Mexico from Japan from so many places I ' ll bring back our jobs and I ' ll bring back our money right now think of this we owe
The investigation concluded that China directs and unfairly facilitates investments and acquisitions to generate large - scale technology transfers from U . S . companies to Chinese entities .
I hear my fellow Republicans and they ' re wonderful people I like them they all want me to support them they don ' t know how to bring it about they come up to my office I a meeting with three of them in the next week and they don ' t know are you running are you not running could we have your support what do we do how do we do it i like them and I hear their speeches and they don ' t talk jobs and they don ' t talk China what was the last time you heard china is killing us
went through meeting me that Rudy never changed it where ' s Rudy where is it Rudy Governor Chris Christie folks was humble thank you the first man for senator first major major politician and let me tell you he is highly respected in Washington because he ' s as smart as you get Senator Jeff Sessions great man another great man very tough competitor he was not easy he was not easy who is
Department of Justice the vast majority of individuals convicted of terrorist and terrorism related offenses since 9 / 11 came here from outside of our country we have seen the attacks at home from Boston to San Bernardino to the Pentagon and yes even the World Trade Center we have seen the attacks in France in Belgium in Germany and all over the world it is not compassion but reckless to allow uncontrolled entry from places where proper vetting cannot
will define our American destiny and your courage and goodness and love will forever guide us along the way together we will make America strong again we will make America wealthy again we will make America proud again we will make America safe again and yes together we will make America great again thank you god bless you and God bless america thank you god bless america
It ' s like a massive wall ? Yes . Why aren ' t they putting up money ? How come it ' s always the United States that puts up money , the suckers ? Why is it always the United States ? And these are the questions I ask and continue to ask him .
have the opposite thinking we have losers we have losers we have people that don ' t have it we have people that are morally corrupt we have people that are selling this country down the drain so I put together the statement and the only reason I ' m telling you about it today is because we really do have to get going because if we have another three or four years you know where an 18 trillion now we ' re soon going to be at 20 trillion according to The Economist
Senator Chuck Schumer , who you will be hearing from later tonight , has repeatedly supported a physical barrier in the past along with many other Democrats . They changed their mind only after I was elected president .
world but that is the past and now we are looking only to the future we assembled here today are issuing a new decree to be heard in every city in every foreign capital and in every Hall of power from this day forward a new vision will govern our land from this day forward it ' s going to be only America first America first every decision on trade on taxes on immigration on Foreign Affairs will
meagan stories about the unbounded power of a father ' s love for a daughter but our slow and burdensome approval process at the food and drug administration keeps too many advances like the one that saved Megan ' s life from reaching those in need if we slash the restraints not just at the FDA but across our government then we will be blessed with far more miracles just like Megan in fact our children will grow up in a nation of miracles but to achieve this
Islamic terrorism is eating up large portions of the Middle East they become rich I ' m in competition with them they just built a hotel in Syria can you believe this they built a hotel when I have to build a hotel I pay interest they don ' t have to pay interest because they took the oil that when we left Iraq I said we should have taken so now Isis has the oil and what they don ' t have Iran has and in nineteen and I will tell you this and I said it very strongly
Who is the enemy today ? And let ' s be clear and work all together on that . I know that we do share exactly the same view . Having less [ Inaudible ] exposure of the U . S . means more European investment and more [ Inaudible ] on the European side . I do agree . Being strict and very efficient against terrorist groups means having clear , clear definition of these groups and no ambiguity .
fact I can tell you the money is pouring in very nice we expect our partners whether in NATO the Middle East or in the Pacific to take a direct and meaningful role in both strategic and military operations and pay their fair share of the cost have to do that we will respect historic institutions but we will respect the foreign rights of all nations and they have to respect our rights as a nation also
were loaded up with oil and the cartel kept the price up because again they were smarter than our ladies they were smarter than Elena ' s there is so much wealth out there that can make our country so rich again and therefore make it great again because we need money we ' re dying with dying we need money we have to do it and we need the right people so Ford will come back they ' ll all come back and I will say this this is going to be an election in
low interest rates we have a stock market that frankly it ' s been good to me but i still hate to see what ' s happening we have a stock market that is so bloated be careful of a bubble because what you ' ve seen in the past might be small potatoes compared to what happens so be very very careful and strengthen our military and take care of our vets so so important sadly the American Dream is dead but if I get elected president I will bring it back bigger and better and
Well , thank you very much . It ' s great to be with President Macron of France . And we ' ve had a fairly long relationship and a very good one . And we were just discussing certain things , and then we ' re going to have a long conversation afterwards . I want to , first of all , before we begin , I want to pay my respects to the great warriors that you lost in Mali -- 13 , and helicopters .
It strains public resources and drives down jobs and wages . Among those hardest hit are African - Americans and Hispanic - Americans . Our southern border is a pipeline for vast quantities of illegal drugs including meth , heroin , cocaine , and fentanyl . Every week , 300 of our citizens are killed by heroin alone . Ninety percent of which floods across from our southern border . More Americans will die from drugs this year than were killed in the entire Vietnam War .
And you read a story that took place , and they don ' t tell you what happened . They only put in the bad . They don ' t put in the good . Same thing with The Washington Post . It ' s a phony paper . We don ' t have it in the White House .
In 2019 , the Trump Administration recognized the Golan Heights as part of Israel becoming the first country to officially do so .
tremendous potential it ' s going to be a beautiful thing every single America will have the opportunity to realize his or her fullest potential their forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer we are going to fix our inner cities and rebuild our highways bridges tunnels airports schools hospitals we ' re going to rebuild our infrastructure which will become by the way second to none and we will put millions of our people to work
This is a choice between right and wrong , justice and injustice . This is about whether we fulfill our sacred duty to the American citizens we serve . When I took the oath of office , I swore to protect our country and that is what I will always do so help me god .
And if you take a look at it , just look at the facts . Even look at what I ' ve done for Ukraine by giving them tank busters , by giving them stuff . And Obama would send pillows and sheets . He wouldn ' t send anything else . It ' s the whole thing . Now Schiff , remember this ? He makes it all up . He ' s sick . There ' s something wrong with him .
ignored or even encouraged globalism exerted a religious pull over past leaders causing them to ignore their own national interests but as far as America is concerned those days are over to confront these unfair practices I placed massive tariffs on more than 500 billion dollars worth of Chinese made goods already as a result of these tariffs supply chains are relocating back to America and to other nations and
when was the last time anybody saw us beating let ' s say China in a trade deal they kill us I ' d be China all the time all the time when did we beat Japan at anything they send their cars over by the millions and what do we do when was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in Tokyo it doesn ' t exist folks they beat us all the time when do we beat Mexico at the border they ' re laughing at us at our stupidity and now they ' re beating us economically they are not our friend
In his first year in office , President Trump took action to protect America ' s critical steel and aluminum industries , which were harmed by unfair trade practices and global excess capacity .
through so it ' s been what they call a historic event but to be really historic we have to do a great job and I promise you that I will not let you down we will do a great job I look very much forward to being your president and hopefully at the end of two years or three years or four years or maybe even eight years you will say so many of you work so hard for us but you will say that you will say that that was something that you were really we ' re very proud to do and and I
with real estate you know it ' s realistic it ' s labor and it ' s unions good and some bad and lots of people that aren ' t in unions and it ' s all over the place and building all over the world and I have assets big accounting firm one of the most highly respected nine billion 240 million dollars and I have liabilities of about 500 that ' s long term debt very low interest rates fact one of the big banks came to me said Donald you don ' t have enough borrowings could we loan you
The Treasury Department and State Department placed sanction on Cuba to channel economic activity away from the Cuban government , particularly the military , and towards the people of Cuba
values in the United States my administration has made clear to social media companies that we will uphold the right of free speech a free society cannot allow social media giants to silence the voices of the people and a free people must never ever be enlisted in the cause of silencing coercing cancelling or blacklisting their own neighbors as we defend American values we affirm the right of all people to live in dignity for this reason my
from the miseries of disease and to harness the energies industries and technologies of tomorrow a new national pride will stir ourselves lift our sights and heal our divisions it ' s time to remember that old wisdom our soldiers will never forget that whether we are black or brown or white we all bleed the same red blood of patriots we all enjoy the same glorious freedoms and we all salute the same great American flag and whether a child is
President Trump visited Poland and a meeting of the G - 20 , where he pushed for closer cooperation and American First policies .
This situation could be solved in a 45 minute meeting . I have invited congressional leadership to the White House tomorrow to get this done . Hopefully we can rise above partisan politics in order to support national security .
The proposal from homeland security includes cutting edge technology for detecting drugs , weapons , illegal contraband and many other things . We have requested more agents , immigration judges to process the sharp rise of unlawful migration fueled by our very strong economy .
common ground not hostility partnership not conflict and now I ' d like to take this moment to thank some of the people who really helped me with this what they are calling tonight very very historic victory first I want to thank my parents who I know are looking down on me right now great people I ' ve learned so much from them they were wonderful in every regard I had truly great parents I also want to thank my sisters Mary Ann and Elizabeth
our border and into our communities including meth cocaine heroin and fentanyl drugs kill seventy eight thousand Americans a year and cost our society in excess of seven hundred billion dollars heroin alone kills 300 Americans a week ninety percent of which comes across our southern border we can stop heroin illegal immigration reduces wages and strains public services the lack of border control provides a gateway in a very wide and open gateway
The Trump Administration successfully litigated WTO disputes targeting unfair trade practices and protected our right to enact fair trade laws .
share common interests in battling extremism and unleashing Economic Opportunity that is why it is so important to have full normalized relations between Israel and its neighbors only a relationship built on common interest mutual respect and religious tolerance can forge a better future Iran citizens deserve a government that cares about reducing poverty ending corruption and increasing jobs not
In January 2017 , the President announced new safeguard tariffs on imported large residential washing machines and solar cells .
border if we are successful in this effort we will then have the best chance in a very long time at real bipartisan immigration reform and it won ' t stop here it will keep going on we do it all the proposal I will outline today is base Dorn first and foremost on input from our border agents and homeland security professionals and professionals they are they know what they ' re doing it is a compassionate response to the
Finally , as part of an overall approach to border security , law enforcement professionals have requested $ 5 . 7 billion for a physical barrier . At the request of Democrats it will be a steel barrier rather than a concrete wall . This barrier is absolutely critical to border security . It ' s also what our professionals at the border want and need . This is just common sense .
institutions yesterday I was also pleased to host leaders for a discussion about an iron Claire American commitment protecting religious leaders and also protecting religious freedom this fundamental right is under growing threat around the world hard to believe but 80 % of the world ' s population lives in countries where religious liberty is in significant danger or even completely outlawed Americans will never fire or tire in our effort to defend and promote
President Trump persuaded allies to develop national plans to boost defense spending up to two percent of GDP by 2024 , and for NATO to formally join the coalition to defeat ISIS at the 2017 NATO Leaders ' meeting .
America and traffic in monstrous anti - semitism last year the country ' s supreme leader stated Israel is a malignant cancerous tumor that has to be removed and eradicated it is possible and it will happen America will never tolerate such anti - semitic hate fanatics have long used hatred of Israel to distract from their own failures thankfully there is a growing recognition in the wider Middle East that the countries of the region
President Trump visited Mecca , Jerusalem , and Rome , three of the world ' s holiest places .
nation an education system flush with cash but which leaves our young and beautiful students deprived of all knowledge and the crime and the gangs and the drugs that have stolen too many lives and robbed our country of so much unrealized potential this American carnage stops right here and stops right now we are one nation and their pain is our pain their dreams are our dreams and
tell you i will immediately terminate President Obama ' s illegal executive order on immigration immediately fully support and backup the Second Amendment now it ' s very interesting today I heard it through stupidity in a very very hardcore prison interestingly named Clinton two vicious murders two vicious people escaped and nobody knows where they are and a woman was on television this morning and she said you know mr . Trump and she was telling other people
Bridge look like small potatoes and they ' re all over the place we have all the cards but we don ' t know how to use them we don ' t even know that we have the cards because our leaders don ' t understand the game we could turn off that spigot by charging them tax until they behave properly now they ' re going militarily they ' re building a military island in the middle of the South China Sea a military island now our country could never do that because we ' d have to
truly make America great again dyeing industries will come roaring back to life heroic veterans will get the care they so desperately need our military will be given the resources it ' s brave warriors so richly deserve crumbling infrastructure will be replaced with new roads bridges tunnels airports and railway sliming across a very very beautiful land our terrible drug epidemic will slow down and ultimately stop and our neglected inner
our leaders and we can sustain ourselves with that there ' s too much it ' s like it ' s like take the New England Patriots and tom brady and have them play your high school football team that ' s the difference between China ' s leaders and our leaders they are ripping us we are rebuilding China we ' re rebuilding many countries China you go there now roads bridges schools you never saw anything like it they have bridges that make the George Washington
They tried to overthrow the presidency . This is a disgrace . But what -- I ' m not surprised to see ; it ' s just starting to come out . I think this is nothing compared that what you ' ll see over the next couple of weeks .
In turn , the strengthening of our domestic steel and aluminum industries reduces our reliance on foreign producers .
to this day it doesn ' t work a five billion dollar website I have so many websites I have them all over the place I hire people they do a website of course to be three dollars five billion dollar website well you need somebody because politicians are all talk no action nothing ' s going to get done they will not bring us believe me to the promised land they will not as an example I ' ve been on the circuit making speeches and
The Administration blocked the state backed Chinese phone company Huawei from operating in the U . S .
President Trump traveled to the Middle East and Europe to solidify relations with our allies in both regions and to push for greater commitments and cooperation .
the people have borne the cost Washington flourished but the people did not share in its wealth politicians prospered but the jobs left and the factories closed the establishment protected itself but not the citizens of our country their victories have not been your victories their triumphs have not been your triumphs and while they celebrated in our nation ' s capital there was little to celebrate for struggling families all across our land
there should be no fear we are protected and we will always be protected we will be protected by the great men and women of our military and law enforcement and most importantly we will be protected by God finally we must think big and dream even bigger in America we understand that a nation is only living as long as it is striving we will no longer accept politicians who are all talk and no action
dollars and also 75 new immigration judge judges that would be part of the legal team who could process the number of claims and that backlog that we ' re currently seeing at the border of people trying to enter the United States now that particular point is something that Democrats have also been wanting for but he did not ignore the one piece that our valent Lee against in that is 5 . 7 billion dollars for what he called a strategic deployment of physical barrier
me in the past of which there were a few people I ' m reaching out to you for your guidance and your help so that we can work together and unify our great country as I ' ve said from the beginning ours was not a campaign but rather an incredible and great movement made up of millions of hard - working men and women who love their country and want a better brighter future for themselves and for their family it ' s a movement comprised of Americans from all races religions
It was very sad . I ' ve gotten a report on it . We talked about it . And please give my condolences to the families and to France . And they ' re great fighters . You ' ve done a fantastic job in that whole area . It ' s a tough area . So we appreciate it very much . And we ' ll be talking about a lot of things , including NATO and including trade .
what a great honor to be able to introduce for the first time ever anywhere the 45 th President of the United States of America Donald J Trump go get that me Chief Justice Roberts President Carter President Clinton President Bush President Obama fellow Americans and people of the world thank you we the
stronger than ever before and we will make America great again thank you thank you very much Thank
Trump got it well i got it for two reasons number one we ' re really good number two we had a really good plan and i ' ll add in the third we had a great financial statement because the General Services who are terrific people by the way and talented people they wanted to do a great job and they want to make sure it got built so we have to rebuild our infrastructure our bridges our roadways our airports you come into laguardia airport it ' s like we ' re in a
fueled by massive tax cuts and regulations cuts jobs are being produced at a historic rate six billion Americans have been added to the employment rolls in under three years last month African American Hispanic American and Asian American unemployment reached their lowest rates ever recorded we are marshalling our nation ' s vast energy abundance and the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world
three nations are the best vehicle for expressing the will of the people and America respects the right of all nations to chart their own path my job is not to represent the world my job is to represent the United States of America but we know that America is better off when there is less conflict not more we must learn from the mistakes of the past we have seen the war and the destruction that have ravaged and raged throughout
fast but the youth is not taken care of and human capital goes to waste the receiving countries are overburdened with more of migrants than they can responsibly accept and the migrants themselves are exploited assaulted and abused by vicious coyotes nearly one - third of women who make the journey north to our border are sexually assaulted along the way yet here in the United States and around the world there was a growing cottage industry of
President Trump followed through on his promise and recognized Jerusalem as the capital of the State of Israel and directed the relocation of the U . S . Embassy . After announcing the United States ' recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel , President Trump quickly and efficiently opened the Embassy in Israel at a low cost to taxpayers .
emboldened us with courage all here to share plans proposals visions and ideas on the world ' s biggest stage like those who met us before our time is one of great contests high stakes and clear choices the essential divide that runs all around the world and throughout history is once again thrown into stark relief it is the divide between those whose thirst for control deludes them into thinking they are destined to rule over others and those people and nations
what we are going to do Obamacare premiums nationwide have increased by double and triple digits as an example Arizona went up a hundred and sixteen percent last year alone governor Matt Bevin of Kentucky just said Obamacare is failing in his state the state of Kentucky and it ' s unsustainable and collapsing one - third of the counties have only one insurer and they ' re losing them fast they are losing them so fast they ' re leaving and many Americans have
believe the five point six don ' t believe it that ' s right a lot of people up there can ' t get jobs they can ' t get jobs because there are no jobs because China has our jobs and Mexico has our jobs they all have our jobs but the real number the real number is anywhere from 18 to 19 and maybe even twenty one percent and nobody talks about it because it ' s a statistic that ' s fully nonsense our enemies are getting stronger and
In November 2017 , the United States won a WTO dispute regarding Indonesia ' s unfair import licensing regime restricting U . S . agricultural exports .
lawless chaos we must restore integrity and the rule of law at our borders for that reason we will soon begin the construction of a great great wall along our southern border as we speak tonight we are removing gang members drug dealers and criminals that threaten our communities and prey on our very innocent citizens bad ones are going out as I speak and as I promised throughout the campaign to any in Congress who do not believe we should
In October 2017 , a WTO compliance panel found that U . S . tuna labeling rules designed to inform consumers about safe fishing practices were consistent with WTO standards .
In August , the Trump Administration launched an investigation under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 into Chinese acts , policies , and practices related to technology transfer , intellectual property , and innovation .
proposed by Democrats themselves and all of them have been supported Democrats in the past including a physical barrier wall or fence furthermore in order to build the trust and goodwill necessary to begin real immigration reform there are two more elements to my plan number one is three years of legislative relief for 700 , 000 daca recipients brought here unlawfully by their parents at a young age many years ago this
what I ' ll do I ' ll do it because a lot of people said he ' ll never run number one he won ' t want to give up his lifestyle they ' re right about that but I ' m doing it number 2 i ' m a private company so nobody knows what i ' m worth and the one thing is that when you run you have to announce and certify to all sorts of governmental authorities your net worth so I said that ' s okay I ' m proud of my net worth I ' ve done an amazing job I started off thank you I started off in a
they ' re doing they don ' t know what they ' re doing we have a disaster called the big lie Obamacare Obamacare yesterday came out that costs are going for people up 29 39 49 and even fifty five percent and deductibles are through the roof you have to get hit by a tractor literally a tractor to use it because the deductibles are so high it ' s virtually useless it is a disaster and remember the five billion dollar website five billion we spent on a website and
that all changes starting right here and right now because this moment is your moment it belongs to you it belongs to everyone gathered here today and everyone watching all across America this is your day this is your celebration and this the United States of America is your country what truly matters is not which party controls our government but whether our government is controlled by the people January 20 th
2000 through 300 sophisticated vehicles they ran and the enemy took him you ' re right last quarter it was just announced our gross domestic product a sign of strength right but not for us it was below zero who ever heard of this it ' s never below zero our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978 but think of a GTP below zero horrible labor participation rate and our real unemployment is anywhere from 18 to 20 percent don ' t
and will to the best of my ability and will to the best of my ability preserve protect and defend preserve protect and defend the Constitution of the United States the Constitution of the United States so help me God so help me God congratulations mr . president
we need we need somebody we need somebody that literally will take this country and make it great again we can do that and i will tell you i love my life i have a wonderful family they ' re saying dead you ' re going to do something that ' s going to be so tough you know all of my life I ' ve heard that a truly successful person a really really successful person and even modestly successful cannot run for public office just can ' t happen and yet that ' s the
The tariffs on steel and aluminum will reduce imports to levels needed for domestic industries to achieve long - term viability .
gratitude for her service to our country I mean that very sincerely now it ' s time for America to bind the wounds of division have to get together to all Republicans and Democrats and independents across this nation I say it is time for us to come together as one United people style I pledge to every citizen of our land that I will be President for all Americans and this is so important to me for those who have chosen not to support
but I have another one Ford so Mexico takes a company car company that was going to build in Tennessee rips it out everybody thought the deal was dead reported in The Wall Street Journal recently everybody thought it was a done deal it ' s going in and that ' s going to be at going into Tennessee great state great people all of a sudden at the last moment this big car manufacturer foreign announces they ' re not going to Tennessee they ' re going to spend their billion
country would be quickly and greatly reduced some say it could be cut in half because these criminals drug smugglers gangs and traffickers do not stop at our border they permeate throughout our country and they end up in some places where you ' d least expect them they go all over our country a steel barrier will help us stop illegal immigration while safely directing commerce to our lawful ports of entry many of these security ideas have been
In September 2017 , the WTO rejected allegations by the European Union that Boeing was receiving prohibited subsidies .
And done a very good job . And we actually have a very good relationship and a good relationship , in terms of our countries . We ' re working on the USMCA . We ' re trying to get Nancy Pelosi to put it up for a vote . You know , if it gets put up for a vote , it passes . But , so far , she hasn ' t decided to do that .
But they ' re killing a lot of people . But NATO has come a long way in three years , and it ' s something that we ' re very proud of , because we ' re with them . NATO serves a fantastic function if everybody is involved . If they ' re not involved -- and I really believe that the President is very much involved and likes the idea of NATO , but he wants it also to be utilized properly .
they ' re devaluing their currency to a level that you wouldn ' t believe it makes it impossible for our companies to compete impossible they ' re killing us but you don ' t hear that from anybody else you don ' t hear it from anybody else and I watch this features thank you I watched the speeches of these people and they say the Sun will rise the moon will set all sorts of wonderful things will happen of and people are saying what ' s going on I just want a job just get me a
don ' t see how he can possibly get the nomination he ' s weak on immigration he ' s in favor of Common Core how to hell can you vote for this guy you just can ' t do it we have to end education has to be local reap the country ' s infrastructure nobody can do that like me believe me it will be done on time on budget way below cost way below what anyone ever thought I look at these roads being built all over the country and I say I can build those things for one - third what they do
fact they are the opposite of immoral because they will save many lives and stop drugs from pouring into our country our plan includes the following 800 million dollars in urgent humanitarian assistance eight hundred and five million dollars for drug detection technology to help secure our ports of entry an additional 2 , 750 border agents and law enforcement professionals 75 new immigration judge teams to reduce the
So here ' s the thing . We have so many -- regardless of what ' s coming out , okay ? The information that we have now is beyond belief already . But what they have coming out , I hear , is historic . That ' s the way it was explained . I heard some stories .
Well , we just began discussing NATO . And what I ' m liking about NATO is that a lot of countries have stepped up , I think , really at my behest . And to -- also , yourself , you ' re close to the level . But they ' ve stepped up and they ' ve put up a lot of money . I told you , it was $ 130 million -- $ 130 billion .
southern border Mexico is showing us great respect and I respect them in return the u . s . we have taken very unprecedented action to stop the flow of illegal immigration to anyone conducting crossings of our border illegally please hear these words do not pay the smugglers do not pay the Coyotes do not put yourself in danger do not put your children in danger because if you make it here you will not be allowed in you will be promptly returned
get rid of the backlog he of course says that there are 900 , 000 cases backlog right now I ' m sure there are fact checkers out there looking into that what the big the big concession on his part and what we ' d been hearing all day is the compromises to these so - called dreamers immigrants without status here in the United States so basically temporary immigration compromises for his permanent wall along the southern border with Mexico so this
No , not at all . And let me tell you , he ' s a sick puppy . He ' s so sick . This guy is so -- I ' ve been going through it for two and a half years about Russia . I ' ve been tougher on Russia than any president in history . But for two and a half years , I ' ve had to listen . This was their talking point , Trump and Russia .
and I buy it i buy it because frankly I have an obligation to buy it because they devalue their currency so brilliantly they just did it recently and nobody thought they could do it again but with all our problems with Russia with all our problems with every everything they got away with it again and it ' s impossible for our people here to compete so I want to tell you this story friend of mine is a great manufacturer calls me up a few weeks ago
for criminals and gang members to enter the United States including the criminal aliens who murdered a brave California police officer only a day after Christmas I ' ve gotten to know and love angel moms dads and family who lost loved ones to people illegally in our country I want this to end it ' s got to end now these are not talking points these are the heartbreaking realities that are hurting innocent precious human beings every single day on both sides of
To defend U . S . national security interests , President Trump blocked a foreign company from acquiring a U . S . business for only the fourth time in history .
America ' s heart broke the day after Christmas when a young police officer in California was savagely murdered in cold blood by an illegal alien , just came across the border . The life of an American hero was stolen by someone who had no right to be in our country . Day after day , precious lives are cut short by those who have violated our borders .
that comes across the border we ' re going to charge you a thirty - five percent tax okay and that tax is going to be paid simultaneously with the transaction and that ' s it now here ' s what ' s going to happen if it ' s not me in the position it ' s one of these politicians that we ' re running against you know the 400 people that we ' re already and here ' s what ' s going to happen they ' re not so stupid they know it ' s not a good thing and they may even be upset by it but then they ' re
is once again ready to lead all the nations of the world Friend or Foe will find that America is strong America is proud and America is free in nine years the United States will celebrate the two hundred and fiftieth anniversary two hundred and fifty years since the day we declared our independence it will be one of the great milestones in the history of the world but what will America look like as we reach our 250 th year what kind of
The investigation concluded that China conducts and supports cyber intrusions into U . S . companies to access their sensitive commercial information , such as trade secrets .
trafficking and put these criminal networks out of business for good to our country I can tell you sincerely we are working closely with our friends in the region including Mexico Canada Guatemala Honduras El Salvador and Panama to uphold the integrity of borders and ensure safety and prosperity for our people I would like to thank President Lopez Obrador of Mexico for the great cooperation we ' re receiving and for right now putting 27 , 000 troops on our
think he ' ll be a great cheerleader for the country I think he ' d be a great spirit he was vibrant he was yeah I really thought that he would be a great cheerleader he ' s not a leader that ' s true you ' re right about that but he wasn ' t a cheerleader he ' s actually a negative force he ' s been a negative force he wasn ' t a cheerleader he was the opposite we need somebody that can take the brand of the United States and make it great again it ' s not great again
In December 2018 , the United States officially recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel .
promote clean air and clean water and to rebuild our military and our infrastructure true love for our people requires us to find common ground to advance the common good and to cooperate on behalf of every American child who deserves a much brighter future an incredible young woman is with us this evening who should serve as an inspiration to us all today is rare disease day and joining us in the gallery is a rare disease
politics will be a total allegiance to the United States of America and through our loyalty to our country we will rediscover our loyalty to each other when you open your heart to patriotism there is no room for prejudice the Bible tells us how good and pleasant it is when God ' s people live together in unity we must speak our minds openly debate our disagreements honestly but always pursue solidarity when America is united America is totally unstoppable
can repair it by and and it can be replaced with something much better for everybody let it be for everybody but much better and much less expensive for people and for the government and we can do it so I ' ve watched the politicians I ' ve dealt with them all my life if you can ' t make a good deal with a politician then there ' s something wrong with you you ' re certainly not very good and that ' s what we have representing us they will never make America great again they
Cooperation was boosted between the Quad countries ( the United States , Japan , India and Australia ) on the sidelines of ASEAN in Manila .
The President exercised his authority to impose a 25 percent global tariff on steel imports and a 10 percent global tariff on aluminum imports in order to protect our national security .
In June 2017 , a WTO compliance panel rejected almost all claims by the European Union that alleged U . S . subsidies to Boeing were causing serious prejudice to Airbus , instead finding that 28 of 29 challenged programs were consistent with WTO rules .
congratulations I understand that you ' re building a nice 2 . 5 billion dollar car factory in Mexico and that you ' re going to take your cars and sell them to the United States zero - tax just flow them across the border and you say to yourself how does that help us right how does that help us where is that good it ' s not so let ' s say congratulations that ' s the good news let me give you the bad news every car and every truck and every part manufactured in this plant
In 2014 , the U . S charged five Chinese military hackers for cyber - espionage committed against U . S . corporations and a labor organization for commercial advantage .
An interagency analysis estimated that China ' s unfair acts , policies , and practices caused tens of billions in dollars in damages to the United States each year .
theirs to build or theirs to lose Patriots see a nation and its destiny in ways no one else can liberty is only preserved sovereignty is only secured democracy is only sustained greatness is only realized by the will and devotion of Patriots in their spirit is found the strength to resist oppression the inspiration to forge legacy the goodwill to seek friendship and the bravery to reach for peace love of our nation ' s makes the world better
Under President Trump , the United States has worked tirelessly to combat extremism and stick up for religious minorities .
we ' re here with us tonight and where are they they ' re here someplace they ' re very shy actually and my brother Robert my great friend where is Robert where is Robert my brother Robert and they should all be on this stage but that ' s okay they are great and also my late brother Fred great guy fantastic that fantastic family I was very lucky great brothers sisters great unbelievable parents to melodia and die
America will no longer settle for anything less than the best we must reclaim countries destiny and dream big and bold and daring we have to do that we ' re going to dream of things for our country and beautiful things and successful things once again I want to tell the world community that while we will always put America ' s interests first we will deal fairly with everyone with everyone all people and all other nations we will seek
product and micron was banned from selling its own goods in China but we are seeking justice the United States lost 60 , 000 factories after China entered the WTO this is happening to other countries all over the globe the world trade organization needs drastic change the second largest economy in the world should not be permitted to declare itself a developing country in order to game the system at others expense for years these abuses were tolerated
We would have maybe invented this thing a lot sooner had he been there originally . But you have some people that are great people , now , and -- patriotic people . They love our country . This was spying on my campaign , something that has never been done in the history of our country . This was an overthrow attempt at the presidency .
means reforming our system of legal immigration the current outdated system depresses wages for our poorest workers and puts great pressure on taxpayers nations around the world like Canada Australia and many others have a merit - based immigration system it ' s a basic principle that those seeking to enter a country or to be able to support themselves financially yet in America we do not enforce this rule straining the
stronger by the day and we as a country are getting weaker even our nuclear arsenal doesn ' t work it came out recently they have equipment that ' s 30 years old they don ' t even know if it worked and I thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on television because boy does that send signals to Putin and all of the other people that look at us and they say that is a group of people and that is a nation that truly has no clue they don ' t know what
company harley - davidson in fact they proudly displayed five of their magnificent motorcycles made in the USA on the front lawn of the White House and they wanted me to ride one and I said no thank you at our meeting I asked them how are you doing how is business they said that it ' s good I asked them further how are you doing with other countries mainly international sales they told me without even complaining because they have been
he ' s very upset I said what ' s your problem he said you know I make great product and I said I know I know that because i buy the product he said I can ' t get it into China they won ' t accept it I sent a boat over and they actually sent it back they talked about environmental they talked about all sorts of crap that had nothing to do with it I said no wait a minute that ' s terrible does anyone know this he said yeah they do it all the time with other
Well , thank you very much , everybody . A question was asked just a little while ago about supporting the people protesting in Iran and are going through a very tough period . And we do support them totally and have supported them from the beginning . The question was asked : " Do we support them " -- I thought -- " financially ?" And we haven ' t supported them .
survivor Megan Crowley Megan Megan was diagnosed with pompe disease a rare and serious illness when she was 15 months old she was not expected to live past five on receiving this news Megan ' s dad John fought with everything he had to save the life of his precious child he founded a company to look for a cure and help develop the drug that saved Megan ' s life today she is 20 years old and a sophomore at Notre Dame
Organization in 2001 our trade deficit in goods with the world last year was nearly 800 billion dollars and overseas we have inherited a series of tragic foreign policy disasters solving these and so many other pressing problems will require us to work past the differences of party it will require us to tap into the American spirit that has overcome every challenge throughout our long and storied history but to accomplish our goals at home and abroad
know the good ones I know the bad ones I know the overrated once you got a lot of that are overrated and not good they think they are they get good stories because the newspapers get buffaloed but they ' re not good but I know the best negotiators in the world and I ' d put him one for each country believe me folks we will do very very well very very well but I wouldn ' t even waste my time with this way I would call up the header Ford who I know if I was president I ' d say
dollars in Iraq two trillion we lost thousands of lives thousands in Iraq we have wounded soldiers who i love i love their great all over the place thousands and thousands of wounded soldiers and we have nothing we can ' t even go there we have nothing and every time we give Iraq equipment the first time a bullet goes off in the air they leave it last week I read 2 , 300 Humvees these are big vehicles were left behind for the enemy 2 , 000 th you would say maybe two maybe 4
as we rebuild it we will also finally take care of our great veterans we ' ve been so loyal and I ' ve gotten to know so many over this 18 - month journey the time I ' ve spent with them during this campaign has been among my greatest honors our veterans are incredible people we will embark upon a project of national growth and renewal I will harness the creative talents of our people and we will call upon the
what we heard from the US president as he outlined what he calls a humanitarian and security crisis that is existing at the southern border with Mexico and he outlined a proposal which he says he hopes Democrats can be on board with he says that he has consulted with a number of them and has tried to include some of their suggestions as well part of it is a monetary breakdown of urgent humanitarian relief as well as drug detection technology in the millions of
cities will see a rebirth of hope safety and opportunity above all else we will keep our promises to the American people it ' s been a little over a month since my inauguration and I want to take this moment to update the nation on the progress I ' ve made in keeping those promises since my election Ford Fiat Chrysler General Motors Sprint Softbank Lockheed Intel Walmart and many others have announced that they will invest billions and billions of dollars in the
and in a certain way I did this rights come up here where is right get over here well boy oh boy oh boy it ' s about time you did this right Letty ' s and gentlemen the next president of the United States Donald Trump thank you it ' s been an honor thank God amazing guy our partnership with the RNC was so important to the success and what we ' ve done so I also have to say I ' ve gotten to know some incredible people the Secret Service people they ' re tough
for decades another Republican President Dwight d Eisenhower initiated the last truly great national infrastructure program the building of the interstate highway system the time has come for a new program of national rebuilding America has spent approximately six trillion dollars in the Middle East all the while our infrastructure at home is crumbling with the six trillion
sorry to keep you waiting complicated business complicated thank you very much I ' ve just received a call from Secretary Clinton she congratulated us it ' s about us on our victory and I congratulated her and her family on a very very hard - fought campaign I mean she she fought very hard Hillary has worked very long and very hard over a long period of time and we owe her a major debt of
On May 14 , 2018 , the United States officially opened our Embassy in Jerusalem , Israel , 70 years to the day that President Truman recognized Israel as an independent country , making the United States the first nation to do so .
my opinion that ' s based on competence somebody said thank you darling somebody said to me the other day a report a very nice reporter but mr . Trump you ' re not a nice person that ' s true but actually I am I think I am a nice place the people that know me like me does my family like me I think so right look at my family I ' m proud of my family by the way speaking of my family Melania Baron cai da need on Vanessa Tiffany evanka did a great job did she do a great job great
they always keep our equipment witness had used equipment right they always keep our equipment we ought to send some real junk because frankly it would be we were to send our surplus we ' re always losing this gorgeous brand and stuff but look at that border with Saudi Arabia do you really think that these people are interested in Yemen Saudi Arabia without us is gone they ' re gone and I ' m the one that made all of the right predictions about Iraq you know all of these
federal workers we have begun to drain the swamp of government corruption by imposing a five - year ban on lobbying by executive branch officials and a lifetime ban thank you and a lifetime ban when becoming lobbyists for a foreign government we have undertaken a historic effort to massively reduce job crushing regulations creating a deregulation task force inside of every government agency
South Korea and Japan pledged to build closer defense collaboration with the United States , and the President underscored the commitment of the United States to providing advanced military equipment .
don ' t even have a chance they ' re controlled fully they ' re controlled fully by the lobbyists by the donors and by the special interests fully that ' s they control them hey I have lobbyists I had to tell you I have lobbyists it can produce anything for me they ' re great but you know what it won ' t happen it won ' t happen because we have to stop doing things for some people but for this country it ' s destroying our country we have to stop and it has to stop now
going to get a call from their donors or probably from the lobbyists for Ford and say you can ' t do that to Ford because Ford takes care of me and I take care of you and you can ' t do that to fort and guess what no problem they ' re going to build in Mexico they ' re going to take away thousands of jobs it ' s very bad for us so under president Trump here ' s what would happen the head of Ford will call me back I would say within an hour after I told him the bad
politicians that I ' m running against now like it ' s so nice to say I ' m running as opposed to if I run if I run I ' m running but all of these politicians that I ' m running against now they ' re trying to dis assoc I mean you looked at Busch it took him five days to answer the question on Iraq he couldn ' t answer the question he didn ' t know I said is he intelligent then I looked at Rubio he was unable to answer the question is Iraq a good thing or a bad thing he
people and they ' re tired of being ripped off by everybody in the world and they ' re tired of spending more money on education than any nation of the world per capita than any nation in the word and we ' re 26 in the world 25 countries are better than us at education and some of them are like third - world countries but we ' re becoming a third world country because of our infrastructure our airports our roads everything so one of the things I did and I said you know
simple we want balanced trade that is both fair and reciprocal we have worked closely with our partners in Mexico and Canada to replace NAFTA with the brand new and hopefully bipartisan US Mexico Canada agreement tomorrow I will join Prime Minister Abbey of Japan to continue our progress in finalizing a terrific new trade deal as the United Kingdom makes preparations to exit the European Union I have made clear that we stand ready to complete an exceptional
save Medicare Medicaid and Social Security without cuts have to do it get rid of the fraud get rid of the waste and abuse but save it people have been paying in four years and now many of these candidates want to cut it you save it by making the United States by making us rich again by taking back all of the money that ' s being lost renegotiate our foreign trade deals reduce our 18 trillion in debt because believe me we ' re in a bubble we have artificially
administration is working with other nations to stop criminalizing of homosexuality and we stand in solidarity with LGBTQ people who live in countries that punish jail or execute individuals based upon sexual orientation we are also championing the role of women in our societies nations that empower women are much wealthier safer and much more politically stable is therefore vital not only to a nation ' s prosperity but
the poor and they are certainly not about good of the nation socialism and communism are about one thing only power for the ruling class today I repeat a message for the world that I have delivered at home America will never be a socialist country in the last century socialism and communism killed 100 million people sadly as we see in Venezuela the death toll continues in this country these totalitarian ideologies combined with modern
really our immigration system has been badly broken for a very long time over the decades many presidents and many lawmakers have come and gone and no real progress has been made on immigration we are now living with the consequences and they are tragic brought about by decades of political stalemate partisan gridlock and national neglect there is a humanitarian and security crisis on our southern border that requires urgent action thousands of children are being
freedom of worship and religion we want and support religious liberty for all Americans will also never tire of defending innocent life we are aware that many United Nations projects have attempted to assert a global right to taxpayer - funded abortion on demand right up until the moment of delivery global bureaucrats have absolutely no business attacking the sovereignty of nations that wish to protect innocent life like many nations here today we in
the c - span networks bring you long - form public affairs programming from the nation ' s capital and are a public service of your television provider c - span created by cable please raise your right hand and repeat after me i Donald John Trump do solemnly swear i Donald John Trump do solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute that I will faithfully execute the office of President of the United States the office of President of the United States
Good . Well , wait a second . Two Supreme Court justices . Within a few weeks , we ' ll have one hundred and eighty - two federal judges . It ' s a record . So I ' ve done more than anybody that ever had .
Yeah , well , that ' s total nonsense . I do want -- always corruption . I say that to anybody . Why should we give money to a country that ' s known corrupt ? It ' s a very corrupt country . I mean , I love the people in Ukraine . I know Ukrainian people . They ' re great people . But it ' s known as being the third most corrupt country in the world .
building they make a billion dollars a day whenever they have problems we send over the ship ' s we said we ' re going to protect what are we doing they got nothing but money if the right person asked them they pay a fortune they wouldn ' t be there except for us and believe me you look at the border with Yemen you remember Obama a year ago Yemen was a great victory a great two weeks later the place was blown up everybody got and they kept our equip
those in Cuba Nicaragua and Venezuela according to a recent report from the UN Human Rights Council women in Venezuela stand in line for 10 hours a day waiting for food over 15 , 000 people have been detained as political prisoners modern - day death squads are carrying out thousands of extrajudicial killings the dictator Maduro is a Cuban puppet protected by Cuban bodyguards hiding from his own people while Cuba plunders Venezuela ' s oil wealth to sustain its
apartment for 15 million dollars to somebody from China am I supposed to dislike them I own a big chunk of the bank of america building in 1290 avenue of the americas that i got from china in a war very valuable I love China the biggest bank in the world is from China you know where they ' re United States headquarters is located in this building in Trump Tower I love China people say oh you don ' t like China no I love them but their leaders are much smarter than
During his first international trip , President Trump pushed for a coalition of nations to confront Iran and attended the opening of the Global Center for Combating Extremist Ideology . It was created to empower Muslim - majority countries in fighting radicalization .
to protect our citizens I have directed the Department of Justice to form a task force on reducing violent crime I have further ordered the department ' s of Homeland Security and justice along with the Department of State and the Director of National Intelligence to coordinate an aggressive strategy to dismantle the criminal cartels that have spread all across our nation we will stop the drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth and
thank you very much mr . speaker mr . vice president members of Congress the first lady of the United States and citizen of South America tonight as we mark the conclusion of our celebration of Black History Month we are reminded of our nation ' s path toward civil rights and the work that still remains to be done recent threats
that new American pipelines be made with American steel we have withdrawn the United States from the job - killing trans - pacific partnership and with the help of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau we are formed to counsel with our neighbors in Canada to help ensure that women entrepreneurs have access to the networks markets and capital they need to start a business and live out their financial dreams
plan solves the immediate crisis and it is a horrible crisis it is a humanitarian crisis like we rarely see in our country and it provides humanitarian relief delivers real border security and immediately reopens our federal government if we are successful in this effort then we can start the border project of remaking our immigration system for the 21 st century once the government is open and we have made a down payment on
entities and individuals who support Iran ' s ballistic missile program and reaffirmed our unbreakable alliance with the State of Israel finally I have kept my promise to appoint a justice to the United States Supreme Court from my list of 20 judges who will defend our Constitution I am greatly honored to have Maureen Scalia with us in the gallery tonight Thank You Maria her late great husband Antonin Scalia will forever be a symbol
We haven ' t been asked to support them , financially , which I assume that ' s what the question was . But just to make sure everybody understood it . It ' s an honor to be with a friend of mine who just had a great election victory . Congratulations .
