To meet the emissions goals in the Green New Deal and the Paris Agreement  ' and avoid the most devastating effects of climate change  ' global greenhouse gas emissions would need to reach net - zero by roughly 2050 . To stay on that course , we must cut projected global emissions by more than half by 2030 .
But every day , shortsighted domestic policies are weakening our national strength . At a time when growing inequality stifles economic growth , Congress ' response has been a $ 1 . 5 trillion tax giveaway to the wealthiest .
Zero additional tax on any household with a net worth of less than $ 50 million ( 99 . 9 % of American households )
Maintain fair scheduling practices ; and
Google : Waze ; Nest ; DoubleClick
We need to be honest about the hard work that is needed to restore our democracy here at home and to align our foreign policy abroad to regain the trust of the American people .
In other words , it ' s time to create a foreign policy that works for all Americans , not just the rich and powerful . Authoritarianism is on the move around the world , there is no time to waste .
on communities of color take wealth out of those communities and just leave the devastation behind and where was our government our regulator ' s they were working great for the rich and the powerful just not for anyone else the consequence of that today the black white homeownership gap is larger than it was when housing discrimination was legal in this country think about that and assets for every hundred dollars of assets that a white family owns a black
of you rich trumka has been a fearless leader for this organization and also a great friend and I ' m deeply grateful for that I also want to say a very special thank you to can say Garda Charlie Wishman to julienne fronts alone when I ' m here with people who do the work every day I feel like I ' m home so thank you you know there just one thing you need to know about me I want to I want to tell you about my my race right now there ' s just one thing you
Even if the United States reaches net - zero emissions by 2030 , that will only cut global emissions by about 6 gigatons ( Gt )  ' still 30 Gt short of the target . We need other countries to slash their emissions , and that means we need to supply the world with clean energy products ( at low enough prices to displace dirty alternatives ) to put us on the right path .
Three young lawyers were at Port Isabel at the same time we were . The lawyers told us that their clients  ' the people they ' ve spoken to in the detention center  ' have strong and credible cases for asylum . But the entire process for being granted asylum depends on one phone call with an immigration official where they make the case for why they should be allowed to stay . One of the first questions a mother will be asked is ,  ' Have you been separated from a child ?  ' For some of the women , just asking that question makes them fall apart and weep .
The need to get our house in order is not theoretical . Whether our leaders recognize it or not , after years as the world ' s lone superpower , the United States is entering a new period of competition . Democracy is running headlong into the ideologies of nationalism , authoritarianism , and corruption . China is on the rise , using its economic might to bludgeon its way onto the world stage and offering a model in which economic gains legitimize oppression . To mask its decline , Russia is provoking the international community with opportunistic harassment and covert attacks . Both nations invest heavily in their militaries and other tools of national power . Both hope to shape spheres of influence in their own image and ultimately remake the global order to suit their own priorities . If we cannot make our government work for all Americans , they will almost certainly succeed .
it ' s a pretty chaotic mess and I finally decided you know this is awful I ' m not doing a good job here there ' s one thing I do know how to do and it ' s teach come on I was a special needs teacher I ' m now teaching in law school I could surely I can do this so I got my kids together finally about the fourth Sunday we did it I said okay look everybody sit down we ' re gonna read a story from the Bible and then I ' m gonna ask you some questions about this so I gave them a
because 2020 is our time in history 2020 is our time to win the fight for a green new deal and save planet 2020 is our time to win this fight for Medicare for all and save our people 2020 our time to win the fight for a two - cent wealth tax and invest in a whole generation 2020 is our time in history our time to dream big fight hard and win you
and the second thing was don ' t even try big money the big banks they will fight you the Republicans will fight you a bunch of the Democrats will fight you you will never get this done I get it big structural change is hard but it was the right thing to do so we took on Wall Street we took on the big money and we won and that little consumer agency has now forced the big banks to return more than twelve billion dollars directly to people they cheated we know how to make
The impact of these policy changes has been devastating . While international economic policies and trade deals have worked gloriously well for elites around the world , they have left working people discouraged and disaffected . Efforts to promote the United States ' own security have soaked up huge resources and destabilized entire regions , and meanwhile , U . S . technological dominance has quietly eroded . Inequality has grown worldwide , contributing to an unfolding nationalist backlash that seeks to upend democracy itself . It is little wonder that the American people have less faith in their government today than at any other time in modern U . S . history . The country is in a moment of crisis decades in the making .
Investments at home strengthen the economy , but they also serve national security . A twenty - first - century industrial policy , for example , would produce good jobs that provide dignity , respect , and a living wage , and it would reinforce U . S . international economic might . When workers and families are more secure in their livelihoods , the country is stronger on the world stage .
Underlying it all , we need to remain vigilant against threats to American democratic norms and processes . The 2016 election raised the alarm , reminding us that democracy is not a self - sustaining machine . We must fight for it every single day . That means protecting the electoral process and making clear that there will be severe consequences for anyone , foreign or domestic , who meddles with it .
Mistakes piled on mistakes . Reckless , endless wars in the Middle East . Trade deals rammed through with callous disregard for our working people . Extraordinary expansion of risk in the global financial system . Why ? Mostly to serve the interests of big corporations while ignoring the interests of American workers .
The challenge we face may be our most profound since the end of WWII . Because here ' s the truth : in our time together this afternoon , we ' ve only just scratched the surface of the problems we face . None of this will be easy  ' but we persist .
The needs for investment are many : Infrastructure projects to increase connectivity and expand opportunity across the United States . Educational and job - training policies to produce skilled workers , encourage entrepreneurship , and grow the talent base . Immigration policies to yield a more robust economy and a more diversified work force . Higher education to equip the coming generations for the future without crushing them with debt . High - quality , affordable health care to ensure security and productivity for every person . An economy that is fair and open to entrepreneurs and businesses of all sizes . A progressive tax system that requires the wealthy to pay their fair share . A government that is not for sale to the highest bidder .
Policymakers were willing to sacrifice American jobs - not their own , of course - in return for boosting sales at Walmart and gaining access to consumer markets around the world .
The lawyers are worried that these women are in such a fragile and fractured state , they ' re in no shape to make the kind of detailed , credible case needed for themselves or their children . They had no chance in our system because they ' ve lost their children and desperately want them back .
An ICE official brought in a group of nine detained mothers who had volunteered to speak to us . I don ' t believe that ICE cherry - picked these women for the meeting , because everything they told me was horrifying .
The story demonstrates why promoting competition is so important : it allows new , groundbreaking companies to grow and thrive  ' which pushes everyone in the marketplace to offer better products and services . Aren ' t we all glad that now we have the option of using Google instead of being stuck with Bing ?
And it ' s still not working . Tomorrow , the Trump Administration will likely sign a renegotiated NAFTA deal .
Green Industrial Mobilization
The Trump administration may be  ' reunifying ' families , but their definition of a family is only a parent and a child . If , for example , a 9 - year - old crosses with an 18 - year - old sister  ' or an aunt or uncle , or a grandparent , or anyone who isn ' t the child ' s documented legal guardian  ' they are not counted as a family and they will be separated .
I believe in us . I believe in what we can do . I believe in democracy and in what we must do to save it .
I ' m very happy to be back on a campus - and happy to be back at a university that has prepared generations of students for public service .
For many years , the United States hoped China would be transformed by engagement with the international community and that , over time , the country would embrace economic and political openness . But by now it should be clear that this strategy has failed . I favor engagement , and I believe in a relationship of mutual respect - but we must also be candid and transparent about our disagreements and concerns .
And NAFTA 2 . 0 does little to reduce pollution or combat the dangers of climate change  ' giving American companies one more reason to close their factories here and move to Mexico where the environmental standards are lower . That ' s bad for the earth and bad for American workers .
unions will have a seat at the table and the reason for that is because I truly believe this is how we ' re going to fix what ' s broken in our economy so here ' s how I see it we have had a problem now for decades and the problem is the government in Washington is working great it ' s working fabulously for giant oil companies it ' s just not working for people who are worried about climate change it ' s working great for giant drug companies
The financial costs are also staggering . The U . S . has put more than a trillion dollars on a credit card for our children to pay , a burden that creates a drag on our economy that will last for generations . Meanwhile , Congress has shirked its responsibility to oversee these ever expanding conflicts .
make this government work for all of America let ' s do this Democrats dream big fight hard let ' s win
Amazon : Whole Foods ; Zappos
just not for people who are trying to get a prescription filled yeah it works great for giant oil companies that want to drill everywhere just not for people who are worried about the impact of climate change that is bearing down on us it works great for giant financial institutions that are determined to make profits wherever they can just not for people forced into payday lending who are trying to make it paycheck to paycheck when a government works great
will start right here in Chicago I know the challenges we face are enormous and the forces that stand against us will stop at nothing to divide us to turn us against each other in times of struggle in times of uncertainty I often turn to scripture for inspiration to keep the faith and to stay in the fight so for me it ' s second Timothy 4 God hath not given us the spirit of fear but of
The system for tracking separated families is virtually unknown , if one exists at all . One expert worries that for some families , just a simple photo may be all the documentation that the Department of Homeland Security and Department of Health and Human Services have to reunite them . ( I sincerely hope that ' s not true .)
Let ' s be clear : Port Isabel isn ' t a reunification center . It ' s a detention center . A prison .
We can use the power of federal procurement in other ways as well . We should require all new federal government contracts for manufactured goods to have received relevant energy - efficiency , environmental - preference , and / or safety designations . And we should require new grants issued by the Department of Transportation and other agencies for infrastructure to include sustainability requirements both for finished goods and for construction materials  ' similar to California ' s 2017  ' Buy Clean ' law .
farmers I support Supply Management and I say it ' s time for a new policy and innovative policy to bring in every single farmer make them part of the solution to climate crisis put them on the front lines these are the people who will help take care of our land for generations to come and help us have a habitable planet for generations to come and one more trade war bite wheat is not working for our farmers I promise you this when I ' m president
my parents bedroom and on the bed is the dress some of you know the dress it ' s the one that only comes out for weddings funerals and graduations and my mother ' s dinner slip and her stocking feet and she ' s pacing and she ' s saying we will not lose this house we will not lose this house we will not lose this house she ' s crying she ' s 50 years old she ' s never worked outside the home and she is truly terrified so she finally pulls it together puts on that dress puts on her
in teaching I was visibly pregnant which meant the principal gave you a handshake wish you well and hired somebody else for the job that ' s how I ended up going to law school that ' s how I ended up becoming a lot I practice law for like 45 minutes and then made it straight back into teaching I traded the little ones for much taller students but always worked on one central question what ' s happening to working families in this country what ' s happening to opportunity
left then shall the King say unto them on his right hand come ye blessed of my father inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world for I was hungry and he gave me meat I was thirsty and he gave me drink I was a stranger and he took me in naked and he clothed me I was sick and he visited me I was in prison and he came unto me and then shall the righteous answer him saying Lord when saw we thee hungered and fed thee or thirsty and gave thee
To enforce these new requirements , federal regulators , State Attorneys General , or injured private parties would have the right to sue a platform utility to enjoin any conduct that violates these requirements , to disgorge any ill - gotten gains , and to be paid for losses and damages . A company found to violate these requirements would also have to pay a fine of 5 percent of annual revenue .
we need strong persistent fighters we not need fighters who know that giving up is not an option we need principled leaders who have the courage to fight for their convictions we need Giants who know that social change is possible only when we join together across lines of difference we need a champion like our Reverend Jesse Jackson thank you for generations under the leadership of our ever in Jeff C Jackson the national pushed Coalition
Our democratic norms also require us to renew our commitment to justice . Fractures in society ' racial injustice , political polarization , economic inequality ' damage us from within , leaving us vulnerable to a toxic stew of hatred and fear . Hateful rhetoric fuels domestic terrorism of all kinds , whether in Charleston or Orlando , Charlottesville or Pittsburgh . And we must strengthen our determination to ensure that every American has equal access to opportunity in society and equal justice and protection under the law . We must do that because it is morally right ' and because it is essential to our national strength .
Today a farmer can work hard , do everything right  ' even get great weather  ' and still not make it . It ' s not because farmers today are any less resilient , enterprising , or committed than their parents and grandparents were . It ' s because bad decisions in Washington have consistently favored the interests of multinational corporations and big business lobbyists over the interests of family farmers .
I can ' t leave here today without addressing the elephant in the room : President Trump and his political allies in Congress . We must face reality head on : President Trump ' s actions and instincts align with those of authoritarian regimes around the globe . He embraces dictators of all stripes . He cozies up to white nationalists . He undermines the free press and incites violence against journalists . He attacks the independence of our Judiciary . He wraps himself in the flag and coopts the military for partisan purposes  ' but he can ' t be bothered to visit our troops in harm ' s way . And he is aided and abetted every step of the way by Republican politicians in Washington too pleased with his judicial appointments and tax cuts for the wealthy to stand up for fundamental American values .
None of this requires sacrificing the interests of American businesses  ' although it will require some of them to take a longer view . The world exists beyond the next quarterly report .
Washington has also bowed to powerful foreign interests instead of standing up for American farmers . Congress repealed mandatory country - of - origin labeling for beef and pork in 2015 after a series of World Trade Organization challenges from Canada and Mexico , and it hasn ' t established a new rule to protect American farmers . The result is that beef and pork can be given a US origin label if it is processed in the United States  ' even if the animals are not born and raised here . This misleads consumers looking for American - grown meat and undermines American beef and pork producers .
Next , I met with some of the legal experts on the frontlines of this crisis  ' lawyers from the Texas Civil Rights Project , the Border Rights Center of the Texas ACLU , and the federal public defenders .
The urgency of the moment cannot be overstated . At home and abroad , democracy is on the defense . The details of the problem vary from place to place , but one cause stands out everywhere : the systematic failure to understand and invest in the social , political , and economic foundations on which democracies rest . If we do not stand up to those who seek to undermine our democracy and our economy , we will end up as bystanders to the destruction of both .
oh good morning church good morning Rainbow PUSH it is so good to be here this morning it is good to be in the house of the Lord oh yes I am here this morning though because this country is in a time of crisis we are in a fight for the very soul of our nation and when we ' re in this kind of fight when we ' re in this kind of battle we need allies who know how to fight and who know how to win
In August , the world watched in horror as a Saudi - led coalition airstrike in Yemen claimed the lives of 40 innocent children . The boys , many under the age of 10 , were killed when their school bus was bombed during a class trip . The weapon used in that deadly bombing was made in America .
Companies with an annual global revenue of $ 25 billion or more and that offer to the public an online marketplace , an exchange , or a platform for connecting third parties would be designated as  ' platform utilities .  '
And what has this brought us ? Policymakers promised that open markets would lead to open societies . Instead , efforts to bring capitalism to the global stage unwittingly helped create the conditions for competitors to rise up and lash out . Russia became belligerent and resurgent . China weaponized its economy without ever loosening its domestic political constraints . Other countries ' faith in both capitalism and democracy eroded . A program once aimed at promoting the forces of freedom ended up empowering the opposite .
Facebook : WhatsApp ; Instagram
America in small - town America that just hasn ' t been the case and that ' s why a couple of days ago I rolled out an expanded plan for rural America and here ' s where it starts it starts with health care it starts with the importance of keeping our community hospitals and our doctors in business you know community loses its hospital young families can ' t move in and seniors feel like they have to leave so here ' s how I see this we start by with being
we need to be willing to call it out for what it is if we ' re going to make the big challenges of our time then it ' s going to take big structural change and that starts with you Iowa you know a lot of people are afraid of big structural change afraid because they ' re already rich and powerful and they may lose influence afraid because they built lives sucking up to those who are rich and powerful afraid because they see an America where they won ' t be
In the 1990 s , Microsoft  ' the tech giant of its time  ' was trying to parlay its dominance in computer operating systems into dominance in the new area of web browsing . The federal government sued Microsoft for violating anti - monopoly laws and eventually reached a settlement . The government ' s antitrust case against Microsoft helped clear a path for Internet companies like Google and Facebook to emerge .
complicated and so dangerous that they had a 1 in 5 chance of costing a family their home not because of fire but because of foreclosure only this time this time the federal government was not on the side of the families it was deep in the pocket of the big banks in fact so deep in the pocket of the big banks that they permitted millions of those mortgages to be sold and they crashed our economy that was 2008 so I had an idea and the idea was a consumer agency
Taxpayers will be permitted to defer payment of the tax with interest for up to five years :
Hello American University !
How did we get here ? There ' s a story Americans like to tell ourselves about how we built a liberal international order ' one based on democratic principles , committed to civil and human rights , accountable to citizens , bound by the rule of law , and focused on economic prosperity for all . It ' s a good story , with deep roots . But in recent decades , Washington ' s focus has shifted from policies that benefit everyone to policies that benefit a handful of elites . After the Cold War , U . S . policymakers started to believe that because democracy had outlasted communism , it would be simple to build democracy anywhere and everywhere . They began to export a particular brand of capitalism , one that involved weak regulations , low taxes on the wealthy , and policies favoring multinational corporations . And the United States took on a series of seemingly endless wars , engaging in conflicts with mistaken or uncertain objectives and no obvious path to completion .
While our leaders were focused on wars in distant lands , the world changed under our feet . Would - be rivals like China and Russia watched and learned , and they are hard at work developing technologies and tactics to leapfrog the United States , in areas like cyber , robotics and artificial intelligence .
Of course , those trade deals worked just great for giant corporations . Huge multinationals used their enormous influence on both sides of the negotiating table to ensure that the terms of the deals always favored their own bottom lines . At home , trillion - dollar global behemoths dominated entire market sectors , while limp U . S . antitrust enforcement remained stuck somewhere in the 1980 s .
When we went over to the mamas with babies , I asked them about why they had left their home countries . One young mother had a 4 - year - old child . She said she had been threatened by the gangs in El Salvador . She had given a drink of water to a police officer , and the gang decided she must be in with the police . The longer she spoke , the more agitated she got  ' that she would never do that , that she understood the risk with the gangs , but that the gangs believed she did it . She sold everything she had and fled with her son to the United States .
We need to refocus our international economic policies so that they benefit all Americans , not just wealthy elites . At the same time , we must refocus our security policies by reining in unsustainable and ill - advised military commitments and adapt our strategies overseas for the new challenges we ' ll face in this coming century . And we need to end the fiction that our domestic and foreign policies are somehow separate , and recognize that policies that undermine working families in this country , also erode America ' s strength in the world .
How the new tech monopolies hurt small businesses and innovation
As part of our commitment to addressing the climate crisis , we should end all American support for international oil and gas projects through the Export - Import Bank and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation . We should also commit to using America ' s voting power in the World Bank and other global financial institutions to cut off investment in fossil fuel projects and to direct that investment into clean energy projects instead . Our efforts should be dedicated to accelerating the global transition to clean energy .
By the time the 2008 global financial crash came around , it only confirmed what millions of Americans already knew : the system didn ' t work for working people  ' and it wasn ' t really intended to .
when I had babies I took my babies to church now by this point I was down in Texas a little church down there and I tried to help out like most people do I bring a covered dish for our meetings sometimes we ' d have them on Friday nights you could always count on me for costumes for the Christmas pageant or for the Easter pageant or whatever the kids were putting together but one day the pastor came up to me and he said he ' s Elizabeth
The mothers say that they can hear babies cry at night .
The United States spends about $ 5 billion annually to subsidize arms sales abroad , making it easier for partners and allies to buy our weapons . I ' ve been a loud critic of how these policies prioritize the interests of giant defense contractors , particularly in the case of weapons sales to Saudi Arabia . Surely the effort to find foreign governments to buy the American - made technology they need to combat climate change should take priority over finding foreign markets for bombs and tanks . It ' s time for us to apply these tools to help address our climate crisis by accelerating foreign purchases of American - made clean energy products .
It is the job of the U . S . government to do what is necessary to protect Americans , but it is long past time to start asking what truly makes the country safer ' and what does not . Military efforts alone will never fully succeed at ending terrorism , because it is not possible to fight one ' s way out of extremism . Some challenges , such as cyberattacks and nuclear proliferation , require much more than a strong military to combat . And other dangers , such as climate change and the spread of infectious diseases , cannot be solved through military action at all . The United States will spend more than $ 700 billion on defense in the 2018  ' 19 fiscal year alone . That is more in real terms than was spent under President Ronald Reagan during the Cold War and more than all the rest of the country ' s discretionary budget put together . But even as Washington spends more and more , U . S . military leaders point out that funding a muscular military without robust diplomacy , economic statecraft , support for civil society , and development assistance only hamstrings American national power and undercuts any military gains .
Pays a 2 % tax on the $ 950 million between $ 50 million and $ 1 billion , and a 6 % tax on the remaining $ 19 billion , for a total annual liability of $ 1 . 16 billion .
I ' m still working through everything I saw , but I wanted you to know the full story . The fight for these children and families isn ' t over  ' not by a long shot .
Consolidation in agriculture is just part of a broader trend of consolidation that has hurt family farmers . Consolidation in the transportation sector has made it harder for farmers to deliver their goods and harder for rural areas to compete economically . Consolidation in the banking sector has hurt community banks and made it more difficult for small businesses and farms to get loans . Consolidation in the healthcare sector has cut off many rural communities from high - quality and accessible care . My administration will prioritize competition and reverse these trends .
And even with all the blood and money we have spilled , America still faces violent terrorist groups that wish to do us harm .
In the 1960 s , we faced a different kind of challenge : the space race . When President Kennedy declared that the United States would be the first nation to put a person on the moon , he knew we hadn ' t yet developed every technological and industrial innovation necessary to achieve this goal . But his commitment spurred a decade of nationwide scientific and technological mobilization that delivered not just the lunar landing , but innovations that helped American workers and industry .
richest fortunes in this country two cents everything over fifty million dollars two cents and here ' s what we can do with two cents we can provide Universal child care for every one of our babies ages zero to six every one of them we can provide universal pre - k for every three - year - old and four - year - old in this country we can raise the wages of every childcare worker and preschool teacher in America we can make public technical school
A new approach should begin with a simple principle : U . S . foreign policy should not prioritize corporate profits over American families . To make sure that globalization benefits middle - class Americans , trade negotiations should be used to curtail the power of multinational monopolies and crack down on tax havens . Workers should be meaningfully represented at the negotiating table , and the resulting agreements should be used to raise and enforce labor standards . Washington should also work with like - minded allies to hold countries that cheat to account .
I believe capitalism has the capacity to deliver extraordinary benefits to American workers . But time after time , our economic policies left these workers with the short end of the stick : stagnant incomes , decimated unions , lower labor standards , rising costs of living . Job training and transition assistance have proven powerless against the onslaught of offshoring .
corruption corruption that keeps this government working great for Big Pharma for big banks for big AG for big tech and not for working people so I got three ideas about what we do about that number one we have to attack the corruption head - on we ' ve got to be willing to go after it call it out for what it is regardless of what party it is in and just say we ' re in all the way to fight it that we want a government that works for us here ' s the good news
five times the squeeze on working families is real and the squeeze on families of color is deliberate let me let me just make one pitch here we ' ve known for generations one way that working families build wealth is they do it by buying homes you know the advantage you get with a set depreciates overtime you get it paid off so it ' s no surprise to learn that starting back in the 1930 s the US government started subsidizing the
We should be on the side of American businesses , protecting them from unfair practices abroad . That means aggressively targeting corruption and pay - to - play demands from unscrupulous governments . It means fighting back against the threat of forced technology transfer in exchange for market access . And it means penalizing the theft of American intellectual property .
For example , NAFTA 2 . 0 has better labor standards on paper but it doesn ' t give American workers enough tools to enforce those standards . Without swift and certain enforcement of these new labor standards , big corporations will continue outsourcing jobs to Mexico to so they can pay workers less .
The IRS already has rules to assess the value of many assets for estate tax purposes . The Ultra - Millionaire Tax is a chance for the IRS to tighten these existing rules to close loopholes and to develop new valuation rules as needed . For example , the IRS would be authorized to use cutting - edge retrospective and prospective formulaic valuation methods for certain harder - to - value assets like closely held business and non - owner - occupied real estate .
Effective , lasting diplomacy requires more than showmanship . Diplomatic breakthroughs don ' t happen overnight ; instead , they are the result of time - consuming , painstaking negotiations conducted by experienced diplomats , in close consultation with our allies . If it occurs , a summit will be only the beginning , not the culmination , of talks to freeze and ultimately denuclearize North Korea .
Yes , we should expect our partners to pay their fair share . But diplomacy is not about charity ; it is about advancing U . S . interests and dealing with problems before they morph into costly wars . Similarly , alliances are about shared principles , like our shared commitment to human rights , but they are also about safety in numbers . Not even the strongest nation should have to solve everything on its own .
This is a challenge  ' but like the challenges America has faced before , it is also an opportunity .
Green Marshall Plan  ' a commitment to using all the tools in our diplomatic and economic arsenal to encourage other countries to purchase and deploy American - made clean energy technology . This includes a new federal office dedicated to selling American - made clean , renewable , and emission - free energy technology abroad and a $ 100 billion commitment to assisting countries to purchase and deploy this technology .
To make progress on climate change and protect our higher standards here in the US , we should leverage foreign countries ' desire for access to U . S . markets as an opportunity to insist on meaningful environmental protections . Just last week our own government said that climate change is already happening and will dramatically endanger the world we share . The threat is real and it is existential - and we need to take action , now .
The proposal also includes strong anti - evasion measures , including but not limited to :
The figure depicts the share of total household wealth owned by bottom 90 % and top 0 . 1 % obtained by capitalizing income tax returns ( Saez and Zucman 2016 ). The unit of analysis is the family .
President John F . Kennedy , whose seat in the U . S . Senate I now hold , once wrote that  ' a nation can be no stronger abroad than she is at home .  ' With American power increasingly challenged from within and without , we can no longer afford to think of our domestic agenda as separate from our foreign policy . A stronger economy , a healthier democracy , and a united people ' these are the engines that power the nation and will project American strength and values throughout the world .
Over the past two decades , the United States has been mired in a series of wars that have sapped its strength . The human cost of these wars has been staggering : more than 6 , 900 killed in Afghanistan and Iraq , another 52 , 000 wounded , and many more who live every day with the invisible scars of war . By financing these conflicts while cutting taxes , the country has essentially charged the costs of war to a collective credit card for future generations to pay , diverting money that could have been invested in critical domestic priorities . This burden will create a drag on the economy that will last for generations .
morning good morning so you know Here I am I never thought that I would get into politics but I learned early on you don ' t get what you don ' t fight for and I ' m in this because we have a Washington that works great for a thinner and thinner slice at the top and I ' m in this fight because I want to have a government that works better for everybody else that ' s why I ' m here so let me just say how grateful I am to have the opportunity to be here with all
At the time of separation , most of the mothers were told their children would be back . One woman had been held at  ' the icebox ,  ' a center that has earned its nickname for being extremely cold . When the agent came to take her child , she was told that it was just too cold for the child in the center , and that they were just going to keep the child warm until she was transferred . That was mid - June . She hasn ' t seen her child since .
Then an employee described what we were about to see .  ' They have separate pods . I ' ll call them pods . I don ' t really know how they name them .  ' Clearly they had gotten the memo not to call them what they are : cages . Every question I asked them had a complicated answer that led to two more questions  ' even the simple question about how long people were held there .  ' Nobody is here longer than 24 hours .  '  ' Well , maybe 24  ' 48 hours .  '  ' 72 hours max .  ' And  ' no children are separated out .  '  ' Well , except older children .  '
It was not the first time . In June , airstrikes hit a cholera treatment center run by Doctors Without Borders , even though it was clearly identified as a medical facility .
This funding would also allow us to expand existing R & D programs with a strong track record of translating innovation into production , like the Energy Department ' s ARPA - E program , the Manufacturing Extension Partnership , the Manufacturing USA network , the National Science Foundation Engineering Research Centers and Industry / University Cooperative Research Centers , the Agriculture Research Service and National Institute of Food and Agriculture grant program at the Department of Agriculture , and the Small Business Innovation Research and Technology Transfer programs .
The women I met were traumatized , weeping , and begging for help . They don ' t understand what is happening to them  ' and they ' re begging to be reunited with their kids .
But here ' s the thing about authoritarian governments  ' they are rotten from the inside out . Authoritarian leaders talk a big game  ' about nationalism , and patriotism , and how they - and they alone - can save the state and the people .
working person regardless of race creed or economic background every working person is paid a living wage so they can build a secure future for themselves and their families we will answer the call to build an America that commits to educating our children before it criminalizes them we will answer the call to build an America where a run - in with law enforcement or a turn down the wrong street corner doesn ' t cost you your life because of the color of your
The warehouse is enormous , with a solid concrete floor and a high roof . It is filled with cages . Cages for men . Cages for women . Cages for mamas with babies . Cages for girls . Cages for boys .
for those at the top and for no one else that is corruption pure and simple and we have to call it out and the impact of that corruption is felt everywhere for a generation now adjusted for inflation incomes are basically flat in this country but what has happened to expenses the cost of housing up more than two - thirds the cost of a health insurance premium more than doubled the cost of sending a kid to school more than tripled the cost of child care up
If you ' re skeptical that this a problem , consider this : the President of the United States has refused to halt arms sales to Saudi Arabia in part because he is more interested in appeasing U . S . defense contractors than holding the Saudis accountable for the murder of a Washington Post journalist or for the thousands of Yemeni civilians killed by those weapons .
Healthy competition can solve a lot of problems . The steps I ' m proposing today will allow existing big tech companies to keep offering customer - friendly services , while promoting competition , stimulating innovation in the tech sector , and ensuring that America continues to lead the world in producing cutting - edge tech companies . It ' s how we protect the future of the Internet .
and got focused on these Bible questions and so one day we were reading a passage about charity and and the children were struggling with the question about charity and the difference of charity what you give but you don ' t have to give but you need to think about what do you owe and that ' s kind of where the conversation turn so I was asking a question what do we owe each other not just give up of charity if you decide to what do you owe each other and so they
Our economic policies are about far more than trade . Our policies should also address the challenges of today ' s interconnected world .
The costs have been extraordinarily high , but these wars have not succeeded even on their own terms . We ' ve  ' turned the corner ' in Afghanistan so many times that it seems we ' re now going in circles . After years of constant war , Afghanistan hardly resembles a functioning state , and both poppy production and the Taliban are again on the rise . The invasion of Iraq destabilized and fragmented the Middle East , creating enormous suffering and precipitating the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people . The region remains a tangled mess ' the promise of the Arab Spring crushed , Iran emboldened , Syria devastated , the Islamic State ( or ISIS ) and its offshoots stubbornly resilient , and a massive refugee crisis threatening to destabilize Europe . Neither military nor civilian policymakers seem capable of defining success , but surely this is not it .
To get serious about privacy , we need to actually protect data rights  ' both from global technology companies hell bent on boosting market share and from governments that seek to exploit technology as a means to control their own people .
power and of love and of a sound mind I am in this fight because I am not afraid I know our fight is a righteous fight and if we stand together if we fight together if we persist together if we dream big and fight hard then we will win and we will make this the America
in this country two cents from the top one - tenth of 1 % and we can have Universal childcare universal pre - k universal college fifty billion dollars in historically black colleges and universities and we can cancel stood alone depth for ninety - five percent of the folks who ' ve got it we ' ve had enough of an America where the government works better and better and better for a thinner and thinner slice at the top 2020 is our chance we can
Next , let ' s cut our bloated defense budget . The United States will spend more than $ 700 billion on defense this year alone . That is more than President Ronald Reagan spent during the Cold War . It ' s more than the federal government spends on education , medical research , border security , housing , the FBI , disaster relief , the State Department , foreign aid - everything else in the discretionary budget put together . This is unsustainable . If more money for the Pentagon could solve our security challenges , we would have solved them by now .
The stench  ' body odor and fear  ' hits the second the door is opened . The first cages are full of men . The chain link is about 12  ' 15 feet high , and the men are tightly packed . I don ' t think they could all lie down at the same time . There ' s a toilet at the back of the cage behind a half - wall , but no place to shower or wash up . One man kept shouting ,  ' A shower , please . Just a shower .  '
Research shows that when governments decide to make big purchases in certain areas , they can help create the kind of sustained economic demand that promotes innovation and launches entire industries . The federal government ' s World War II - era commitment to purchasing military items led to an enormous surge in American manufacturing capacity and set the stage for decades of sustained economic growth .
These actions do not make Americans safer . It ' s time to seriously review the country ' s military commitments overseas , and that includes bringing U . S . troops home from Afghanistan and Iraq . They have fought with honor , but additional American blood spilled will not halt the violence or result in a functioning democratic government in either place .
Neither military nor civilian policymakers seem capable of defining success  ' but surely this is not it . The first responsibility of government is to do what is necessary to protect ourselves at home and abroad , but it ' s long past time we asked the question : what actions make us truly safer ?
That ' s why my administration will make big , structural changes to the tech sector to promote more competition  ' including breaking up Amazon , Facebook , and Google .
Tyson , for example , controls just about every aspect of bringing chicken to market  ' feed , slaughter , trucking  ' everything except owning the farms themselves . Chicken farmers have gotten locked into a  ' contract farming ' system in which they take on huge risks  ' loading up on debts to build and upgrade facilities  ' while remaining wholly dependent on Tyson for everything from receiving chicks to buying feed to selling the grown broilers .
willing to fight against Hospital mergers that cost us our local hospitals and we recognize the economics small hospitals operate on thin margins that means everybody who comes in the door needs to be covered by health care that ' s one of the reasons I support Medicare for all and we have to be willing to put in the resources to support our rural hospitals to make sure we ' ve got enough doctors and nurses that medical service is available to everyone
Investments at home strengthen the economy , but these investments also serve national security . A 21 st century industrial policy , for example , would produce good jobs that provide dignity , respect , and a living wage , and it would also reinforce U . S . international economic power .
The human costs of these wars has been staggering : more than 6 , 900 Americans killed , another 52 , 000 wounded . Many more who live every day with the invisible scars of war . And hundreds of thousands of civilians killed .
Like Bryan , I will fight for farmers  '  ' for this broader class of businessman .  ' I want Washington to work for family farmers again , not just for the agribusiness executives pocketing multi - million dollar bonuses or the Wall Street traders sitting at their desks speculating on the price of commodities . I want family farmers to be fairly rewarded for their hard work . That is how we build an economy that works for everyone .
Rates and Revenue
Extremely successful small business owner of a $ 30 million business as well as additional assets for a household net worth of $ 40 million
Pays zero tax because they are below the $ 50 million threshold
Whether our leaders recognize it or not , after years as the world ' s lone superpower , the United States is entering a new period of competition . Democracy is running headlong into the ideologies of nationalism , authoritarianism , and corruption .
when I negotiate a trade deal there will be independent farmers at the table to make sure we get this right and one last point I want to make when I talk about structural change in our economy when I talk about the kind of changes we need to make it ' s so this economy works for everyone think about it this way we need more power in the hands of workers that means make it easier to join a union and give unions more power when they negotiate and it ' s time for a wealth tax
Russia has become belligerent and resurgent . China has weaponized its economy without loosening its domestic political constraints . And over time , in country after country , faith in both capitalism and democracy has eroded .
need to know I ' ve done a hundred and twenty six town halls I ' ve been to 26 states plus Puerto Rico I ' ve spoken live to over 80 , 000 people and tens of thousands more people online and whatever ' s been covered in the media and every single time I have appeared at one of these town halls I have uttered this sentence unions built America ' s middle class and unions will rebuild America ' s middle class
you this promise when I am president we will answer this call together we will answer this call and we will stand with one another we will answer the call to make health care affordable housing and high quality education for every child a basic human right we will answer the call to build an America where the difference between a good education and a prison sentence isn ' t just a few blocks we will answer the call to make certain that every working person every
Current antitrust laws empower federal regulators to break up mergers that reduce competition . I will appoint regulators who are committed to using existing tools to unwind anti - competitive mergers , including :
Un - Rigging the Rules
Second , my team will be committed to breaking up big agribusinesses that have become vertically integrated and that control more and more of the market . The Department of Justice has not revised its guidelines on vertical mergers in 35 years . And in that time , we have seen merger after merger linking together every aspect of the chain in farming . We do not want to see other sectors come to resemble the chicken sector . My administration will bring vertical integration cases to break up integrated agribusinesses .
a minimum audit rate for taxpayers subject to the Ultra - Millionaire Tax ;
With a commitment of this size , we must ensure that we use taxpayer dollars as efficiently as possible . That means we should follow procurement best practices : competitive selection ; tight cost controls ; strong whistleblower protection standards and records retention requirements ; and rigorous transparency rules , including audited financial statements and a broad application of federal open records law . To enforce these measures , we will establish an oversight board with the ability to terminate contracts , issue subpoenas , and refer parties that engage in fraud to federal authorities .
Community College and for years State College free to every one of our kids we can level the playing field and put fifty billion dollars into our historically black colleges and we can cancel student loan debt for 95 % of the kids who got it yes we can begin to close the black - white wealth gap with these plans but there ' s so much more I have a plan to fund black entrepreneurs let ' s close the Entrepreneurship gap I have a plan to
Protecting the future of the internet
And we must ensure that Russia  ' or any other foreign power  ' can ' t use Facebook or any other form of social media to influence our elections .
Let ' s start with a serious problem : Around the world , democracy is under assault . Authoritarian governments are gaining power . Right - wing demagogues are gaining strength . Movements toward openness and pluralism have stalled and begun to reverse . Inequality is rapidly growing , transforming rule by - the - people into rule by - wealthy - elites . And here at home , many American politicians seem to accept  ' even embrace  ' the politics of division and resentment .
Cage after cage . Same questions , same answers .
Americans are an adaptive , resilient people , and we have met hard challenges head on before . We can work together , as we have before , to strengthen democracy at home and abroad . We can build a foreign policy that works for all Americans , not just wealthy elites .
For smaller companies ( those with annual global revenue of between $ 90 million and $ 25 billion ), their platform utilities would be required to meet the same standard of fair , reasonable , and nondiscriminatory dealing with users , but would not be required to structurally separate from any participant on the platform .
just one more on that that I ' ll mention you really want to read out some corruption make every single person who runs for federal office put their tax returns online that ' s part one part two is we got to restructure the heart of this economy the problem we ' ve got is too many giant corporations that are exercising more and more and more power power in this economy power in this government and raking off more and more of the profits so the way I see it is to
Here ' s my plan for that : Invest $ 2 trillion over the next ten years in green research , manufacturing , and exporting  ' linking American innovation directly to American jobs , and helping achieve the ambitious targets of the Green New Deal .
Zip
My plan has three elements :
There is no doubt that Iran ' s actions in Yemen are destabilizing . Iran ' s government supports militias that attack Saudi territory and undermine the internationally recognized central government of Yemen . But we can no longer turn a blind eye to the actions of the Saudi coalition -- or our own role in the suffering of the Yemeni people .
That ' s why I ' m proposing a new federal program  ' backed with $ 100 billion in funding  ' dedicated to working with foreign governments and companies so they purchase and deploy American - made clean , renewable , and emission - free energy technology .
ADD YOUR NAME IF YOU AGREE
While our two economies are deeply intertwined and many Massachusetts businesses have significant equities in the Chinese market , China often pursues policies that cut out American businesses . It has taken advantage of many American companies seeking to do business there , limiting access to its market and aggressively targeting American intellectual property . By some estimates , unfair Chinese policies have cost millions of hard - working Americans their jobs here at home .
Let me propose three core nuclear security principles . One : No new nuclear weapons . I have voted against and will continue to vote against this President ' s attempt to create new , more  ' usable ' nuclear weapons . Two : More international arms control , not less . We should not spend over a trillion dollars to modernize our nuclear arsenal , at a time when the President is doing everything he can to undermine generations of verified arms control agreements . Instead , let ' s start by extending New START through 2026 . Three : No first use . To reduce the chances of a miscalculation or an accident , and to maintain our moral and diplomatic leadership in the world , we must be clear that deterrence is the sole purpose of our arsenal .
about for me there are three lessons in that passage the first is there is God in every one of us there is God in every one of us not God just in those who look like the Lord God in every one of us there is God in the children there is God in the hungry there is God in those who are in prison the second thing it says to me is that we are not called simply to observe we ' re not called just to have a good heart we are called to act to feed the hungry to bring water to
he said I ' d like you to teach Sunday school and I said oh I said Reverend I um you know I got little kids and I ' ve got my own teaching job teaching and the laws but you know that goes and he said no he said I really like you to teach Sunday School he said the fifth graders he said we ' ve had a teacher quit and he said we really need you to teach fifth grade Sunday school and I ' m giving it the backpedal of the whole time and he said finally reaches out and grabs my
But the authoritarian system is rotten , because , by its very design , it stacks the deck for the wealthy and it depends on corruption in order to survive .
We need to reform the checkoff programs to root out corruption . I support legislation that will make the checkoff program voluntary and ensure that Boards cannot engage in anti - competitive practices or lobby the government .
This combination of authoritarianism and corrupt capitalism is a fundamental threat to democracy , both here in the United States and around the world .
But as it ' s currently written , Trump ' s deal won ' t stop the serious and ongoing harm NAFTA causes for American workers . It won ' t stop outsourcing , it won ' t raise wages , and it won ' t create jobs . It ' s NAFTA 2 . 0 .
It is a threat because corrupt leaders enhance their own power by subverting the power of everyone else  ' and so they actively undermine free and open societies through cyber - attacks , disinformation campaigns , or support for illiberal politicians .
Married couple with a primary and vacation residence and substantial retirement savings for a household net worth of $ 20 million
Vladimir Putin attacks the free press and thumps his chest about the power of Russia , but his real power comes from state - run corporations conveniently overseen by his friends and cronies . Corruption .
those unions more power and one more we need to rewrite the rules to protect our democracy I want to see a constitutional amendment to protect the right to vote and make sure every vote gets counted
Pay all employees at least $ 15 per hour , subject to adjustments for inflation ;
In the late 1930 s , America  ' and the world  ' faced an existential threat : Nazi aggression in Europe . The United States responded by mobilizing its industrial base to produce the technology the country and the world needed to face down this threat . Our investments in domestic manufacturing paid off for decades afterwards . New workers gained valuable new skills and manufacturing provided good middle - class jobs for millions of Americans .
We also must stop foreign governments and companies from buying up American farmland . Foreign companies and countries like China and Saudi Arabia already own 25 million acres of American farmland . That ' s about the size of Virginia . And one in four American hogs has a Chinese owner . That jeopardizes our food security , which threatens our national security too .
This week , I will travel to the Asia Pacific region to meet with our allies Japan and South Korea , and to talk with Chinese government officials in Beijing . Our engagement in Asia is essential to U . S . security and economic interests , but today the region faces significant threats .
If free societies like ours slide toward corruption and autocracy , they risk becoming democracies in name only .
the thirsty to visit the imprisoned and the third is that we are called to act without promise of reward we are called to act because it is right as I travel this country and I hear from the American people they share their struggles they share their fears they share their concerns but the people know what is right and they are ready to act they know that they have been called for such a time as this and they are willing to step up I am here today to say that
We must give people more control over how their personal information is collected , shared , and sold  ' and do it in a way that doesn ' t lock in massive competitive advantages for the companies that already have a ton of our data .
That ' s why I will push hard for new country - of - origin rules for beef and pork  ' and use the trade tools available to me as President to push Canada and Mexico to accept them . These new rules will not only be good for consumers because they promote transparency , but good for independent American farmers , who are otherwise undercut by global agribusinesses passing off foreign beef and pork as American .
The Department of Homeland Security had released some details on its plan to reunify families . The release noted that Port Isabel will be the  ' primary family reunification and removal center for adults in their custody .  '
While it is easy to blame President Trump for our problems , the truth is that our challenges began long before him . And without serious reforms , they are just as likely to outlast him .
We can adopt a foreign policy that works for all Americans , not just wealthy elites . We can protect American interests first and foremost , while recognizing that those interests are best served when we leverage the support of allies and partners . We can reform international institutions to make them more flexible and inclusive , while still preserving the United States ' global leadership role . We can make smart investments to deter adversaries and defend the country , while balancing our ambitions with our resources . We can adapt to the technological demands and challenges of the twenty - first century , designing policies that reflect the world not as it once was but as it will be . And we can recognize that global power is generated here at home , recapitalizing the American economy and reinvesting in American democracy at its roots .
 ' This is a moral issue . We are all part of this human family ,  ' they say .
Even though the CBP officials at the processing center told me that mothers with children that have special needs would be released , one of the mothers I spoke with had been separated from her special needs child . She talked about her child who doesn ' t have properly formed legs and feet and walks with great difficulty . One of the mothers spoke of another mother in the facility who is very worried because her separated child is deaf and doesn ' t speak at all .
10 - Year revenue total of $ 3 . 75 trillion
If people claim we can ' t afford to combat climate change , they ' re wrong . According to the independent Moody ' s analysis of my plan , nearly its entire cost is covered by my Real Corporate Profits Tax  ' a tax that ensures that the very largest and most profitable American corporations don ' t pay zero corporate income tax  ' ending federal oil and gas subsidies , and closing corporate tax loopholes that promote moving good jobs overseas .
a partner in this fight with you thank you all
able to make the changes they need afraid because they are either too cynical or too downtrodden to believe that change is possible well not me I believe in change and I know we can get it done and why do I know we can get it done because I ' ve done it so I want to tell you a story about a toaster back when I was a young mom toasters could actually set houses on fire really um those little toaster ovens didn ' t have a shutoff
Here ' s what will change : Small businesses would have a fair shot to sell their products on Amazon without the fear of Amazon pushing them out of business . Google couldn ' t smother competitors by demoting their products on Google Search . Facebook would face real pressure from Instagram and WhatsApp to improve the user experience and protect our privacy . Tech entrepreneurs would have a fighting chance to compete against the tech giants .
Policymakers promised that open markets would lead to open societies .
because money has felt everywhere in Washington here ' s the good news I now have the biggest anti - corruption bill since Watergate that ' s the good news here ' s the bad news we need the biggest anti - corruption bill since water cake it ' s just not working for us out there but let me tell you a couple of parts of it my bill says end lobbying as we know it block the revolving door between mains between Wall Street and Washington and
For these reasons , I oppose NAFTA 2 . 0 , and will vote against it in the Senate unless President Trump reopens the agreement and produces a better deal for America ' s working families .
On the Korean Peninsula , a nuclear - armed North Korea threatens the security of the United States , our allies , the region , and the world . I agree with our senior military officials that there is no military - only solution to the situation on the Korean Peninsula , and I was glad to see President Trump embrace diplomacy earlier this month .
sure that every vote that is cast is as safe as Fort Knox not open to any Russian hackers or North Korean hackers or anybody else we need to we need to get rid of political gerrymandering so that democracy really works and roll back every racist voter suppression law in this country and just one more I want to mention overturn Citizens United democracy is not for sale so this is what I ' m fighting for
There ' s no question we need to renegotiate NAFTA . The federal government has certified that NAFTA has already cost us nearly a million good American jobs  ' and big companies continue to use NAFTA to outsource jobs to Mexico to this day .
and I ' ve called CEOs to try to get them to settle disputes to try to get them to recognize unions that we ' re seeking recognition in other words I just want to say it this way if you ' re looking for a partner in the White House someone you can count on then that ' s who I will be on every major decision unions will have a seat at the table whether we ' re talking about health care or trade or transportation or manufacturing policy
We can start our defense of democracy by fixing what has gone wrong with our international economic policies .
It ' s time to seriously review the country ' s military commitments overseas .
Fifty - five years ago , when President John F . Kennedy spoke here at American University , he said that ,  ' our problems are manmade ' therefore , they can be solved by man .  '
A foreign policy that works for all Americans must also be driven by honest assessments of the full costs and risks associated with going to war . All three of my brothers served in the military , and I know our service members and their families are smart , tough , and resourceful . But having a strong military doesn ' t mean we need to constantly use it . An effective deterrent also means showing the good judgment to exercise appropriate restraint .
Using Proprietary Marketplaces to Limit Competition . Many big tech companies own a marketplace  ' where buyers and sellers transact  ' while also participating on the marketplace . This can create a conflict of interest that undermines competition . Amazon crushes small companies by copying the goods they sell on the Amazon Marketplace and then selling its own branded version . Google allegedly snuffed out a competing small search engine by demoting its content on its search algorithm , and it has favored its own restaurant ratings over those of Yelp .
As I visit Japan , South Korea and China this week , I recognize that our alliances around the world are one of America ' s unique strengths . Now more than ever , we must stand with our allies and partners to uphold our shared interests . To do so , we need a foreign policy that leverages all our national power , not just our military might . I look forward to meeting and working with my counterparts to ensure that Asia remains a part of the world where every nation can prosper .
The time for holding back is over . Patriots of every political persuasion must stand up to this type of behavior . Americans must demonstrate to this President and to the world that we are not sliding toward autocracy - not without a fight .
The world was changing before President Trump took office , and it will continue to change after he has gone . There is no going back , but we can shape the world we inherit .
This is truly a global problem . While much of the debate around the Green New Deal has focused on the path to aggressive reductions in domestic greenhouse gas emissions , the science is clear : even if we reduce America ' s emissions so that they are net - zero by 2030 , we will still fall far short of the reduction in global emissions needed to avert a climate crisis . To satisfy this global need , we need rapid innovation on par with the space race along with widespread domestic and international adoption of clean , renewable , and emission - free energy technology .
A century ago , in the Gilded Age , waves of mergers led to the creation of some of the biggest companies in American history  ' from Standard Oil and JPMorgan to the railroads and AT & T . In response to the rise of these  ' trusts ,  ' Republican and Democratic reformers pushed for antitrust laws to break up these conglomerations of power to ensure competition .
Email
arm II said no I really need you to teach Sunday school and I said well I bet maybe try some way he says it ' s the third teacher who ' s quit and I said is your problem in the fifth no he said look he said it ' s not that hard just so long as nobody gets hurt it ' ll be a success so I ' m thinking whoa so I keep trying this and the pastor you know like Reverend Jackson he puts the arm on you you come through so there I am I show up to teach my fifth grade Sunday school
Our country is in a moment of crisis decades in the making , a moment in which America ' s middle class has been hollowed out , working people have been betrayed , and democracy itself is under threat .
Federal regulators have allowed multinational companies to crush competition and seize control over key markets . Over the last few decades , giant agribusinesses have grown bigger and bigger . They ' ve merged horizontally , like Dow - Dupont and Syngenta - ChemChina . And they ' ve expanded vertically .
Detainees can pay to make phone calls , but all of their possessions are taken from them at the processing center . The only way they can get money for a call is for someone to put money on their accounts . I asked if people or charities could donate money so that they ' d be able to make phone calls to their family or lawyers , but they said no  ' a donor would need the individual ID number for every person detained at the center , and ICE obviously isn ' t going to release that information .
purchase of housing for white people for black people for brown people they discriminated it was called redlining and the consequence was by the 1960 s there was a huge gap in home ownership between African Americans and whites so what happens we have a civil rights movement we say we ' re going to change all this we put money into housing and it gets a little bit better and then what happens a long term the big banks and they figure out that they can focus
One thing you won ' t see much of in the CBP processing center ? Fathers caged with their children . After pressing the CBP agents , they explained that men traveling with children are automatically released from the facility . They just don ' t have the cages there to hold them . Women with small children , on the other hand , could be detained indefinitely . I pressed them on this again and again . The only answer : they claimed to be protecting  ' the safety of the mother and children .  '
Iowa has the right idea . It passed a law prohibiting foreign individuals or entities from purchasing farmland for the purpose of farming . I support a national version of that law , and as President , will use all available tools to restrict foreign ownership of American agriculture companies and farmland . And I ' m committed to stronger beneficial ownership laws so that foreign purchasers can ' t set up fake American buyers to get around these restrictions .
As a candidate , Trump promised to bring U . S . troops home . As president , he has sent more troops into Afghanistan . On the campaign trail , Trump claimed he did not want to police the world . As president , he has expanded the United States ' military footprint around the globe , from doubling the number of U . S . air strikes in Somalia to establishing a drone base in Niger . As a candidate , Trump promised to rebuild the military , but as president , he has gutted the diplomatic corps on which the Pentagon relies . He promised to reduce the threat of nuclear proliferation , but he has undermined a successful nuclear deal with Iran , has failed to roll back the North Korean nuclear program , and seems intent on spurring a new nuclear arms race with Russia .
This humanitarian catastrophe didn ' t happen overnight . For more than three years , a military coalition led by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates has been bombing Yemen as part of a proxy war to counter the Iran - supported Houthi militias .
We must ensure that today ' s tech giants do not crowd out potential competitors , smother the next generation of great tech companies , and wield so much power that they can undermine our democracy .
We can curtail the power of multinational monopolies through serious antitrust enforcement .
Sister Norma introduced me to a father and his teenage son from Honduras . The father said that a gang had been after his son , determined that the boy would join the gang . The only way for the boy to escape was to run . The man left his wife and four daughters in Honduras to bring his son to the United States . His only plan is to find work here to send money home to his family . His cousin lives in New Jersey , so CBP sent their paperwork to the local ICE center in New Jersey , and they would soon begin the long bus ride there .
But where the value of the company came from its network , reformers recognized that ownership of a network and participating on the network caused a conflict of interest . Instead of nationalizing these industries  ' as other countries did  ' Americans in the Progressive Era decided to ensure that these networks would not abuse their power by charging higher prices , offering worse quality , reducing innovation , and favoring some over others . We required a structural separation between the network and other businesses , and also demanded that the network offer fair and non - discriminatory service .
The Green New Deal commits us to a  ' fair and just transition for all communities and workers ,  ' and that requires us to recognize that climate change doesn ' t affect every community equally . Here at home , lower - income communities , communities of color , and Indigenous nations have often borne the brunt of climate change and other environmental harms . At the same time , communities dependent on fossil fuel extraction for economic stability worry about what transitioning to clean and renewable technology will mean for their jobs . And globally , wealthy industrialized nations have disproportionately benefited from fossil fuel use and are better equipped to weather the effects of a changing climate , while other countries disproportionately suffer the impacts .
Washington had it all figured out . And this confidence spilled over into more than trade deals . Champions of cutthroat capitalism pushed former Soviet states to privatize as quickly as possible , despite the risk of corruption . They looked the other way as China manipulated its currency to advance its own interests and undercut work done here in America .
Add in decades of domestic policies that have helped the rich get richer and left everyone else behind , and it ' s no wonder Americans have less faith in democratic government today than at any other time in modern U . S . history .
And then there were the large cages with women and small children . Women breast - feeding their young children .
The defense industry will inevitably have a seat at the table - but they shouldn ' t get to own the table .
ladies and gentlemen welcome to the stage Massachusetts senator Elizabeth Warren hello Iowa Democrats I believe Democrats win when we talk about our values and here ' s an important one for me no matter where you live in America you ought to have a chance to build a secure future for yourself and your family and you ought to be able to count on a federal government that ' s on your side but for decades now in rural
Today I described my plan for economic patriotism . It ' s a strategy for using all the tools of government to defend and create American jobs rather than continuing to cater to the interests of Wall Street and multinational corporations with no allegiance to America .
just not for people who are trying to get a prescription filled when you ' ve got a government that works great for those who can hire armies and of lobbyists and lawyers and make huge campaign contributions and set up their own think tanks and bought and paid for experts but it ' s not working for working people that is corruption pure and simple and we need to call it out for what it is
Jesse said I said you have an idea what we owe each other and Jesse said yeah he said everybody gets a turn and I thought yeah and he said everybody gets a turn and I I thought of that it ' s very much like the passage from Matthew so if you ' ll forgive me I know you know the passage but I want to remind everyone and see if we can we can we can link these up so I ' m at Matthew 25 you ready Matthew here and I ' m I ' m old school so
Green Apollo Project
It ' s time for the rich to pay their fair share .
We must help America ' s content creators  ' from local newspapers and national magazines to comedians and musicians  ' keep more of the value their content generates , rather than seeing it scooped up by companies like Google and Facebook .
To fight back , we need to pursue international economic policies that benefit all Americans , not merely an elite few . We need strong yet pragmatic security policies , amplified by diplomacy . And the United States can no longer maintain the comfortable assumption that its domestic and foreign policies are separate . Every decision the government makes should be grounded in the recognition that actions that undermine working families in this country ultimately erode American strength in the world . In other words , we need a foreign policy that works for all Americans .
SUBMIT
2 % annual tax on household net worth between $ 50 million and $ 1 billion
Here ' s what won ' t change : You ' ll still be able to go on Google and search like you do today . You ' ll still be able to go on Amazon and find 30 different coffee machines that you can get delivered to your house in two days . You ' ll still be able to go on Facebook and see how your old friend from school is doing .
little piece to read about Noah and so they all read about know and they ' re still giggling and twisted in the seats but they all read about Noah and I said how do you think Noah felt when he heard God and of course they give lots of giggling answers you know they give answers like and we ' re going crazy and you know he ' s it a spaceman talking to me but after a while they start to actually kind of get engaged what would that mean that God
the revolving door between Wall Street and Washington and how about one more anybody who wants to run for federal office you got to put your tax returns on line at at corruption head - on they ' re gonna play me off here but I ' m gonna say two more things we got to rewrite the rules in this economy and that means more power in the hands of workers we need to make it easier to unionize and give
A truly just transition must also include benefits to uplift and empower workers who may be hurt by the transition to a more green economy , including those currently employed in the fossil fuel industry . That means providing them with financial security  ' including early retirement benefits  ' job training , union protections , and benefits where appropriate , and guaranteeing wage and benefit parity for affected workers .
Advancing the Interests of American Farmers
Then I asked them how long they had been there  ' and the answers were all over the map , from a few days to nearly two weeks ( 72 hours max ?). The CBP agents rushed to correct the detained men , claiming that their answers couldn ' t be right . My immigration specialist on the trip who speaks fluent Spanish made sure the men understood that the question was ,  ' How long have you been in the building ?  ' Their answers didn ' t change .
Our response to the climate crisis must take these disparate experiences into account . That means prioritizing resources for frontline and disadvantaged communities that have been polluted and left behind by the fossil fuel economy . It means creating truly participatory and democratic processes , centered on and led by those living on the front lines of climate change , who know best what their communities need . And it means that abroad the United States must not only help countries to adapt and become more resilient to climate impacts , but must also help to reduce the structural inequalities that make them so vulnerable in the first place .
Recent setbacks in China ' s approach to the rule of law , peaceful expression , and human rights also trigger alarm bells . And in some cases , including in the South China Sea , China ' s actions do not appear to match its words , leading to serious questions about their strategic intentions in the region .
Life expectancy in the U . S . is falling as drug overdoses skyrocket , and our health - care system struggles to respond . The U . S . is slashing domestic investments in education and infrastructure even as potential adversaries double down on those same priorities . Our government guts environmental protections while coastal cities spend days underwater and California burns .
More than a century ago , during the Gilded Age , prairie populists joined together to fight for farmers during a time of massive economic transformation . They understood that working on the farm was honorable work that deserved to be recognized just as much as other occupations .
Today ' s big tech companies have too much power  ' too much power over our economy , our society , and our democracy . They ' ve bulldozed competition , used our private information for profit , and tilted the playing field against everyone else . And in the process , they have hurt small businesses and stifled innovation .
For decades , the leaders of both parties preached the gospel that free trade was a rising tide that would lift all boats . Great rhetoric  ' except that the trade deals they negotiated mainly lifted the yachts - and threw millions of working Americans overboard to drown .
Those four changes would fundamentally alter every trade negotiation .
clear I know some of you are saying but on your 50 million and first dollar you got a pitch in two cents and two cents for every dollar after that and what could we do with two cents in America we could provide universal child care for every baby in this country ages zero to five think what that would mean for young families the universal pre - k for every three - year - old and four - year - old in this country raise the wages of every child care worker and preschool teacher
We can get this done . We can make big , structural change . But it ' s going to take a grassroots movement , and it starts right now . Sign our petition if you agree , and let ' s get ready to fight hard together .
hello what a great crowd I am so glad to be here with you all today you know this is a perilous time for our country and every single day that goes by we see a new form of the risks posed to our country by a corrupt administration we woke up this morning to find out that at least 25 people in this administration had been denied security clearances yeah why oh because they had ties to foreign
America should also be reinvesting in diplomacy . Foreign policy should not be run exclusively by the Pentagon .
There are a lot of issues we must tackle to help rural America : everything from broadband internet and public school funding to water quality and climate change . But promoting competition and leveling the playing field is an important step .
The globalization of trade has been tremendously profitable for the largest American corporations . It has opened up opportunity and lifted billions out of poverty around the world .
I gave them a rundown of everything I ' d seen so far in McAllen , particularly when it comes to reuniting parents and children , and they raised some of my worst fears :
A program once aimed at promoting the forces of freedom ended up empowering the opposite .
Each mother told us her own story about crossing the border , being taken to a processing center , and the point that they were separated from their child or children . In every case , the government had lied to them about where their children were being taken . In every case , save one , no mother had spoken to her child in the days since the separation . And in every case , no mother knew where her child was .
NAFTA 2 . 0 is also stuffed with handouts that will let big drug companies lock in the high prices they charge for many drugs . The new rules will make it harder to bring down drug prices for seniors and anyone else who needs access to life - saving medicine .
that would protect people when they got mortgages or credit cards or payday loans the same way that other consumer agency had protected people when they bought toasters so here ' s the deal I went to Washington and I tried to talk to everybody I could about this idea and they told me two things almost everyone I talked to said the same two things first that is a great idea you could make a real difference that ' s structural change yes
The climate crisis demands immediate and bold action . Like we have before , we should bank on American ingenuity and American workers to lead the global effort to face down this threat  ' and create more than a million good jobs here at home .
A foreign policy that lifts the fortunes of all Americans must also take an honest look at the full costs and risks of our military actions .
In other words : we need to set new rules for global capitalism in the 21 st century  ' rules that work for all Americans , not just wealthy elites .
How can we make the system fair for working Americans ? Lots of ways .
Second , my administration would appoint regulators committed to reversing illegal and anti - competitive tech mergers .
government work for the people so what did I learn from this fight I learned that notwithstanding what the billionaires will tell you what big egg or big banking or big pharma will tell you that if we ' re going to meet the challenges of our time we need big ideas big ideas big ideas to inspire people and get them out to caucus and get them out to vote make ideas to be the lifeblood of our party and show the world who and what Democrats will fight
From the outside , the CBP processing center looks like any other warehouse on a commercial street lined with warehouses . There ' s no clue about the horrors inside .
Catholic Charities of the Rio Grande Valley provides a lifesaving service to people of all faiths and backgrounds , but with a humanitarian crisis in their backyard , they ' re clearly stretched as thin as it gets . With more money and volunteers , they would gladly help more people .
This isn ' t about politics . This isn ' t about Democrats or Republicans . This is about human beings . Children held in cages . Babies scattered all over this country . And mamas who , in the dark of night , hear them cry .
Equitable Investment
switch so you could put in the bread hear the baby cry leave the room and come back and your toast would literally be in flames sometimes along with the kitchen curtains and the kitchen cabinets as well and then a federal agency stepped in and said enough you can ' t sell toasters in America that could have a 1 in 5 chance of burning down your house done no more toaster fires back by the early 2000 s mortgages in this country had gotten so
Beginning in the 1980  ' s , Washington ' s focus shifted from policies that benefit everyone to policies that benefit a handful of elites , both here at home and around the world .
Legal experts have submitted two separate letters in support of the constitutionality of this proposal .
Restoring competition in the tech sector
For decades , the wealthy and the well - connected have put American government to work for their own narrow interests . As a result , a small group of families has taken a massive amount of the wealth American workers have produced , while America ' s middle class has been hollowed out .
So , how did we get here ? There ' s a story we tell as Americans , about how we built an international order  ' one based on democracy , human rights , and improving economic standards of living for everyone . It wasn ' t perfect  ' we weren ' t perfect  ' but our foreign policy benefited a lot of people around the world .
Mothers and children may be considered  ' together ' if they ' re held in the same gigantic facility , even if they ' re locked in separate cages with no access to one another . ( In the world of CBP and ICE , that ' s how the 10 - year - old girls locked in a giant cage are  ' not separated ' from their mothers who are in cages elsewhere in the facility .)
America ' s big tech companies provide valuable products but also wield enormous power over our digital lives . Nearly half of all e - commerce goes through Amazon . More than 70 % of all Internet referral traffic goes through sites owned or operated by Google or Facebook .
In his famous  ' Cross of Gold ' speech , William Jennings Bryan said :  ' The farmer who goes forth in the morning and toils all day , begins in the spring and toils all summer , and by the application of brain and muscles to the natural resources of this country creates wealth , is as much a businessman as the man who goes upon the Board of Trade and bets upon the price of grain .  '
Green Apollo Program  ' a commitment to leading the world in developing and manufacturing the revolutionary clean energy technology the world will need , like the way we invested in innovative science to win the race to the moon . That means $ 400 billion in funding over the next ten years for clean energy research and development  ' more than ten times what we invested in the last ten years . It means the creation of a National Institutes of Clean Energy . And it means provisions to ensure that taxpayers capture some of the upside of their research investments and that our research dollars result in manufacturing in the United States , not offshore .
this gonna be King James Version okay and let me set this story up if there ' s anyone in here who doesn ' t know the story it ' s that the sheep are being divided from the goats and just so y ' all understand sheep were going to heaven the goats most definitely are not and the Shepherd has divided them and he ' s put the sheep on one side and he ' s put the goats on the other and here ' s the passage and then he shall set the sheep on his right hand but the goats on the
a significant increase in the IRS enforcement budget ;
I asked Sister Norma about the women and babies who were in indefinite detention . She said her group would open their arms and take care of them , get them cleaned up and fed and on a bus to a family member  ' if only ICE would release them .
I want a government that makes sure everybody  ' even the biggest and most powerful companies in America  ' plays by the rules . And I want to make sure that the next generation of great American tech companies can flourish . To do that , we need to stop this generation of big tech companies from throwing around their political power to shape the rules in their favor and throwing around their economic power to snuff out or buy up every potential competitor .
Valuing assets for the purposes of the Ultra - Millionaire Tax will provide an opportunity to tighten and expand upon existing valuation rules for the estate tax :
Federal R & D investments boost the economy , but we can structure our future research investments so they create more American jobs and produce even better returns for taxpayers . As I ' ve explained in more detail in my economic patriotism plan , all new federal R & D should require production resulting from that R & D to take place in the United States and allow taxpayers to capture some of the upside if companies hit it big on the back of taxpayer - funded R & D . And we can ensure our R & D investments spur economic development in every part of the country  ' not just the coasts  ' by sending money to consortiums of land grant universities , to targets situated in rural areas , and to areas that have seen the worst job losses in recent years .
Consolidation is choking family farms , but there ' s a whole lot of other ways in which big business has rigged the rules in their favor and against family farmers . I will fight to change those rules .
The United States ' economic policies must also reflect the realities of the twenty - first century . To address corruption , it is critical to work closely with allies to require transparency about the movement of assets across borders . If we are serious about privacy , we must protect data rights from global technology companies and countries that seek to exploit technology as a means to control their populations . To make progress on climate change , we should leverage foreign countries ' desire for access to U . S . markets as an opportunity to insist on meaningful environmental protections .
get structural change you ' ve got to get power back into the hands of workers that means make it easier to join a union and give unions more power when they negotiate a second way we restructure this economy is it ' s time for a wealth tax in America yeah that ' s a 2 cent tax 2 cents on the top 1 / 10 of 1 % of great fortunes in this country so here ' s how it is your first 50 million dollars in accumulated wealth you keep it free and
class and I described this these kids are like man they are everywhere they are having a big time but not there to do much of a Sunday School lesson so in the space of the first two or three weeks they cut each other ' s hair that was a highlight they glue a bunch of stuff together including a bunch of our equipment and stuff in the room we ' re on the first floor fortunately because at one point all the little boys climbed out the window so
While we must make income taxes more progressive , that alone won ' t straighten out our slanted tax code or our lopsided economy . Consider two people : an heir with $ 500 million in yachts , jewelry , and fine art , and a teacher with no savings in the bank . If both the heir and the teacher bring home $ 50 , 000 in labor income next year , they would pay the same amount in federal taxes , despite their vastly different circumstances . Increasing income taxes won ' t address this problem .
My plan makes a massive $ 1 . 5 trillion commitment to federal procurement of clean , green , American products over the next ten years . At $ 150 billion a year , that represents a 30 % increase in total annual procurement . This will create immediate demand , spurring innovation and investment in the American clean energy sector .
American security and American values should come ahead of the profit margins of these private companies . It is time to identify which programs actually benefit American security in the 21 st century , and which programs merely line the pockets of defense contractors - then pull out a sharp knife and make some cuts .
But it all starts with attacking consolidation in the agriculture sector head on . We must give family farmers more options and more bargaining power in the marketplace so they can build more economic security .
America already leads the way in developing and producing certain types of clean energy , from wind to biofuel . I ' ll build on that foundation with a $ 400 billion federal commitment over ten years to clean energy research and development  ' more than 10 times what we invested in clean energy R & D in the last ten years .
That ' s why we need a tax on wealth . The Ultra - Millionaire Tax taxes the wealth of the richest Americans . It applies only to households with a net worth of $ 50 million or more ' roughly the wealthiest 75 , 000 households , or the top 0 . 1 %. Households would pay an annual 2 % tax on every dollar of net worth above $ 50 million and a 6 % tax on every dollar of net worth above $ 1 billion . Because wealth is so concentrated , this small tax on roughly 75 , 000 households will bring in $ 3 . 75 trillion in revenue over a ten - year period .
Next we came into the area where the children were held . These cages were bigger with far more people . In the center of the cage , there ' s a freestanding guard tower probably a story or story - and - a - half taller to look down over the children . The girls are held separately in their own large cage . The children told us that they had come to the United States with family and didn ' t know where they had been taken . Eleven years old . Twelve . Locked in a cage with strangers . Many hadn ' t talked to their mothers or fathers . They didn ' t know where they were or what would happen to them next .
Here ' s how it would work . A new federal office would work with foreign governments to arrange purchases of American - made clean , renewable , and emission - free energy products . The federal government would secure the agreements and then purchase the required technology from American manufacturers . The office would use its annual $ 10 billion budget to offer various financing options to foreign purchasers to encourage more purchases . And the office would offer discounts and other incentives to countries hardest hit by the climate crisis , or in exchange for countries making regulatory changes that will further reduce their greenhouse gas emissions .
Hedge fund manager with a net worth of $ 500 million
in this country why is it that for millions of people it has gone wrong in this country so I look at this and here ' s what I discover it is not an accident it ' s not something that just happened on its own what ' s happened in America has been a series of deliberate decisions made in Washington understand it this way this government right now in Washington works great for giant drug companies
Ensure that employees may exercise collective bargaining rights , such as by posting notices of collective bargaining rights and maintaining complete neutrality with regard to union organizing .
This funding would help create a new National Institutes of Clean Energy modeled after the National Institutes of Health . NIH has made dozens of breakthrough discoveries and provided incredible returns for the economy and for taxpayers . We should replicate that model , with dedicated institutes for clean energy research . And we should prioritize research that can be commercialized to help close the gap in hard - to - decarbonize sectors  ' such as aviation and shipping  ' and in areas otherwise underrepresented in the existing R & D portfolio , like long - duration grid storage .
