Whatever Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation ends up revealing about Russia’s efforts to subvert our democracy, one thing is already clear from the media attention this topic has received: America’s democratic institutions are highly vulnerable to foreign influence.
Foreign powers use three basic tools to interfere in democratic politics: cyber operations, disinformation and dark money. Thanks in part to Mueller’s indictments of members of Russia’s military intelligence agency (GRU) and the St. Petersburg troll farm known as the Internet Research Agency, we have begun to address election-related cyber attacks and foreign disinformation. But when it comes to foreign dark money – money from unknown foreign sources – we remain woefully unprepared.
The lack of transparency in our campaign finance system combined with extensive foreign money laundering creates a significant vulnerability for our democracy. We don’t know how much illicit money enters the United States from abroad or how much dark money enters American political campaigns, but in 2015, the Treasury Department estimated that $300 billion is laundered through the U.S. every year. If even a small fraction of that ends up in our political campaigns, it constitutes an unacceptable national security risk.
While foreign funding of campaigns is prohibited by federal statute, the body that enforces campaign finance laws – the Federal Election Commission (FEC) – lacks both teeth and resources. Sophisticated adversaries like Russia and China know how to bypass the ban on foreign funding by exploiting loopholes in the system and using layers of proxies to mask their activities, making it difficult for the FEC, the FBI, and the Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network to follow the money.
One of the key loopholes is the ability of so-called super PACs to accept money from U.S. subsidiaries of foreign corporations. And while super PACs are required to file financial disclosure reports, non-profit 501(c) organizations (for example, the National Rifle Association or the U.S. Chamber of Commerce) are not. So if a foreign entity transfers money to a 501(c), that organization can in turn contribute funds to a super PAC without disclosing the foreign origin of the money.
The last time Congress took on dark money was after 9/11, in the Patriot Act, when we made it illegal for banks to be “willfully blind” to money laundering and requiring them to verify their customers’ identities. But the lack of any requirement to disclose the beneficial (i.e. “true”) ownership of limited liability companies (LLCs) makes it easy for foreign entities to establish shell companies in the United States. These shell companies can then contribute to a 501(c), invest in real estate or channel money directly to a super PAC. Fortunately, there are steps we can take to secure our system and shine a light on these murky transactions.
In August, two dozen state attorneys general asked Congress to pass legislation to disclose the beneficial owners of LLCs. A federal solution to this issue is necessary because individual states compete for incorporation revenue and therefore have little incentive to reform on their own. In Nevada, for example, the process of registering a company has been described as “easier than getting a library card.” A federal requirement to disclose the true owners and controlling interests of LLCs would allow law enforcement to scrutinize the “ghost corporations” that pop up overnight in states like Nevada or Delaware – and that could be used to funnel dark money into our politics.
Real estate deals are also susceptible to foreign money laundering because they are largely exempt from the “know your customer” rules that apply to the banking industry. This allows foreign entities to use shell companies to park their wealth in the United States or to channel that money to U.S. political interests (for example, by purchasing real estate at above-market prices). Implementing more comprehensive disclosure requirements in high-end real estate and prohibiting all-cash sales above certain thresholds would help create transparency in this sector.
The fact that we don’t know exactly how much foreign dark money is being channeled into U.S. politics is precisely why we need to reduce our vulnerabilities. There is ample evidence of dark money penetrating other democracies, and no reason to believe we are immune from this risk. In 2004, for example, Lithuania’s president was impeached after the media disclosed that a Russian oligarch who contributed to his campaign later received Lithuanian citizenship. Just this past January, in Montenegro, a local politician was charged with laundering Russian funds to support a pro-Russian political party. In Australia, an intelligence report leaked in 2017 exposed pervasive Chinese financial influence in the country’s domestic politics. Similar allegations recently surfaced in New Zealand.
As we take on the threats posed by cyber attacks and disinformation from foreign actors, we can’t ignore the threat posed by foreign dark money. With a new Congress about to be sworn in, there’s an opportunity to finally end the permissive environment for foreign dark money in this country. Campaign finance reform is certainly a necessary part of the solution, but so too is disclosure of beneficial ownership and greater transparency in real estate transactions. As matters of national security, these are issues that should be of interest to both Democrats and Republicans who want to reduce our vulnerability to foreign corrupt influence.
During my eight years as vice president, leading U.S. engagement with our partners throughout the Western Hemisphere was among the most rewarding challenges in my portfolio. Initially, progress was slow. Trust between the United States and our neighbors was at a low, driven by disagreements over the war in Iraq, the aftershocks of a great recession, a widening rift over the United States’ long-standing Cuba policy, and an overall sense in the region that we had simply lost interest.
By the time President Obama and I left the White House, we had established a new foundation of cooperation for our region built around shared responsibility, respect and partnership. It included a broader and deeper relationship with Mexico, a global agenda for cooperation with Brazil, reinvigorated engagement with Central America, post-earthquake reconstruction in Haiti, restored diplomatic ties with Cuba, support for Colombia’s historic peace process, improved energy security in the Caribbean, expanded trade and collaborative relations with countries throughout the region.
This is not to say we were perfect—far from it. Other international issues competed for our attention and entrenched challenges of poverty, violence and corruption continued to stymie growth and opportunity, particularly in El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. But for the first time, it was possible to envision a hemisphere that was secure, middle class and democratic, from the northern reaches of Canada to the southern tip of Chile.
During the past two years, that foundation for cooperation has been needlessly yet determinedly destroyed. Our neighbors, including some of our closest allies and largest trading partners, have endured a torrent of antagonism from our president. Canada and Mexico have been repeatedly bullied, while Central American and Caribbean countries have been derided with derogatory epithets. The president has now twice canceled visits to Colombia, our key ally in regional security, and he has rolled back the travel and commerce that afforded Cuban entrepreneurs and families greater independence from the Communist state. The harrowing scenes we saw this past summer of children being torn from their parents’ arms at our borders will not soon be forgotten by any of our partners. And, this past April, President Trump became the first U.S. president to skip the Summit of the Americas, the premier regional forum established by the United States in 1994 to galvanize a regional agenda that corresponds with U.S. interests. In short, this administration has wantonly abdicated our leadership in the region.
Leadership Vacuum
Our disengagement comes at a time when others are stepping up in the region. China is now the largest or second-largest trading partner of virtually every country in South America’s southern cone, and the Chinese have successfully convinced the Dominican Republic, El Salvador and Panama to change their diplomatic recognition away from Taiwan. Russia too is expanding its reach throughout Latin America and the Caribbean. Our geopolitical rivals are eagerly filling the vacuum of leadership as the United States pulls back.
It is vital that we maintain our leadership role in the region—not because we fear competition, but because U.S. leadership is indispensable to addressing the persistent challenges that prevent our region from realizing its fullest potential. China and Russia seek economic and diplomatic benefits but do not invest in democratic institutions or good governance. We do, because we benefit from the success of our neighbors and we are impacted by their struggles.
If economies in Latin America aren’t growing because of corruption, if rampant violence drives people from their homes to seek safety elsewhere, or if autocrats undermine democratic institutions and abuse human rights in their countries, it affects us too. Refusing to lead—closing our border, hiding behind walls, pulling back from the region—will do nothing to help these countries address the root of these problems.
Take, for example, the problem of corruption. It’s a cancer that erodes the capacity of nations to govern, drives away crucial foreign investment and can metastasize into a crisis of legitimacy in fragile democracies. From the Panama Papers to Brazil’s “Operation Car Wash” scandal to the rampant cronyism in Venezuela and Nicaragua, we have ample evidence of how corruption undermines progress throughout the region. The people of Latin America are sick of the region’s systemic corruption.
Between 2014-2016, I visited Guatemala three times to support the work of the UN-backed anti-corruption commission in Guatemala, known as CICIG. I made it clear that U.S. funding for Guatemala hinged on CICIG being allowed to continue its work. In fact, when former Guatemalan President Otto Pérez Molina was subsequently arrested on corruption charges brought by CICIG, he blamed me. Our administration’s support—and intense personal engagement with regional leaders—was critical. For the first time, the people of Guatemala began to feel like no one was above the law.
Yet in August of 2018, when President Jimmy Morales announced that he would not renew CICIG’s mandate—flanked by military leadership, with U.S.-donated Army vehicles posted in a show of force outside CICIG’s headquarters and the U.S. Embassy—Secretary of State Pompeo called Morales to tell him that the United States supported Guatemala. There could not have been a clearer message to kleptocrats throughout the region that the United States is no longer in the anti-corruption business. That hurts all of us.
Security Requires Respect
Consider also the difficult question of migration, particularly from Central America, where so many are fleeing crime, violence, persecution and a lack of opportunity. Securing our borders, enforcing our immigration laws, and fulfilling our humanitarian obligations is a challenging mandate, but we can—and we must—do all three at once.
In the summer of 2014, President Obama asked me to lead our response when an estimated 68,000 unaccompanied minors came across the border.
Rather than implementing draconian policies or tear-gassing civilians, we worked closely with Congress to help the Central American governments address the root causes pushing people from their homes. We put together a $750 million program to help them combat corruption and human trafficking while increasing domestic revenue and tax collection—and we made our assistance conditional on results. During our final years at the White House, Honduras overhauled its police force to root out widespread corruption, Guatemala collected hundreds of millions of dollars from tax-evading companies and expanded cooperation between our transnational anti-gang units and Central American law enforcement resulted in successful operations like the May 2015 indictment of 37 members of the street gang MS-13 in Charlotte, North Carolina.
These are serious challenges that impact the security of U.S. citizens. They require serious and thoughtful leadership. Scapegoating immigrants may offer the hope of short-term political gain, but it doesn’t solve the problems or prevent more migrants from attempting to reach the United States. We need policies that reflect the heart and the dignity of our nation—policies that uphold our laws and the sanctity of our borders, as well as our international humanitarian obligations. We also need to invest the political capital necessary to reform our broken immigration system.
Finally, the United States needs to be an active partner to defend the democratic character of our region. This has been a persistent challenge—one the United States has not always risen to—but with the tides of nationalism and populism rising once more throughout the region, and growing threats from autocrats and their henchmen, principled U.S. leadership is needed more than ever.
Instead of respecting the will of their people, the governments of Nicolás Maduro in Venezuela and Daniel Ortega in Nicaragua have confronted peaceful protesters with force, even armed vigilantes. They have limited the freedoms of expression and assembly necessary for political dialogue and arrested their political opponents. In Venezuela, government officials have embezzled billions of dollars from government coffers, while everyday citizens struggle to find food and medicine. It is an affront to democratic values.
Yet, even sensible efforts by this administration to exert pressure on Maduro and Ortega have been undermined by politicization, faulty execution and clunky sloganeering. Stronger diplomatic efforts and intensified sanctions on Venezuela have been clouded by saber-rattling and misguided efforts to engage with coup plotters. Similar responses to the civil unrest and state repression earlier this year in Nicaragua produced little in the way of results as that country settles into an intolerable “new normal.” This administration has demonstrated its willingness to capitalize politically on crises, but actions like its continued deportation of Venezuelans and the attempted revocation of “temporary protected status” for Nicaraguans demonstrate little concern for the Venezuelan or Nicaraguan people.
Governments have a basic responsibility to respect the universal rights of their citizens. Our region embraces that precept in the Inter-American Democratic Charter—that means that all the countries of this hemisphere, including the United States and our friends and adversaries alike, have a duty to support the people of these countries. All our citizens want the same basic things: a job that pays a fair wage and puts food on the table, education for our children, security for our families, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, a sense of opportunity and the hope that tomorrow will be better than today. The region used to look to the United States on such matters. But if we tarnish our example, we must expect that they will look elsewhere.
Resilient Ties
The breakdown of U.S.-Latin American relations in such a short time is striking, but it is not beyond repair. The shared values and history that bind the U.S. together with Latin America and the Caribbean—as well as Canada—have proven durable and resilient through many missteps and recalibrations. But steps need to be taken—and soon—to ensure that the current breach does not deepen into a divide that damages U.S. relations with the hemisphere for a generation.
We need to ensure U.S. leadership continues to be a driving force for positive regional change that will enable all of our countries to prosper and grow. We must pursue the opportunities afforded by greater energy integration, continue to combat the scourge of corruption and share the benefits of trade more broadly, enhance our shared security and rebuild multilateral cooperation in the hemisphere. And we must make sure that when the next Summit of the Americas convenes in 2021, there will be a U.S. president at the table, ready to lead our region toward the future all our peoples deserve.
Charlottesville, Va., is home to the author of one of the great documents in human history. We know it by heart: “We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights.”
We’ve heard it so often, it’s almost a cliché. But it’s who we are. We haven’t always lived up to these ideals; Jefferson himself didn’t. But we have never before walked away from them.
Charlottesville is also home to a defining moment for this nation in the last few years. It was there on August of 2017 we saw Klansmen and white supremacists and neo-Nazis come out in the open, their crazed faces illuminated by torches, veins bulging, and bearing the fangs of racism. Chanting the same anti-Semitic bile heard across Europe in the ‘30s. And they were met by a courageous group of Americans, and a violent clash ensued and a brave young woman lost her life.
And that’s when we heard the words from the president of the United States that stunned the world and shocked the conscience of this nation. He said there were “some very fine people on both sides.” Very fine people on both sides?
With those words, the president of the United States assigned a moral equivalence between those spreading hate and those with the courage to stand against it. And in that moment, I knew the threat to this nation was unlike any I had ever seen in my lifetime.
I wrote at the time that we’re in the battle for the soul of this nation. Well, that’s even more true today. We are in the battle for the soul of this nation.
I believe history will look back on four years of this president and all he embraces as an aberrant moment in time. But if we give Donald Trump eight years in the White House, he will forever and fundamentally alter the character of this nation — who we are — and I cannot stand by and watch that happen.
The core values of this nation, our standing in the world, our very democracy, everything that has made America, America, is at stake.
That’s why today I’m announcing my candidacy for President of the United States.
Folks, America’s an idea, an idea that’s stronger than any army, bigger than any ocean, more powerful than any dictator or tyrant. It gives hope to the most desperate people on earth, it guarantees that everyone is treated with dignity and gives hate no safe harbor. It instills in every person in this country the belief that no matter where you start in life, there’s nothing you can’t achieve if you work at it.
Ladies and gentlemen, in less than a decade CNAS has built something impressive. It’s growing stronger and it’s getting more influential year by year.
And today I’m here to speak about a question that’s paramount in all of our minds, and that is: How should the next President handle the national security inheritance of the Obama administration that will be passed along in January?
And I want to say at the outset, you’d expect me to be more optimistic than maybe others you’ll hear from or have heard from. But I am truly optimistic about America’s future. I think we’re better positioned than any nation in the world by a long shot — any region in the world — to be the dominant political, economic, and military force for the better part of this next century.
And the choices the President and I have made over the past seven and a half years, they have been to quote the title of a book, very “Hard Choices,” choices that have required very difficult tradeoffs. We’ve positioned the United States at the forefront, though, I think of tremendous opportunity.
To divert just a second, Michelle said, I like Yeats. And I do. Well, this is the 100th anniversary of the Rising on Easter Sunday. And there is a line in his poem called Easter Sunday 1917 [sic*] that goes like this, and he’s trying to describe his Ireland at the moment. He said, “All’s changed; changed utterly. A terrible beauty has been born.”
This is one of the most informed audiences I could possibly be speaking to on this topic. But all has changed, changed utterly in the last 15 years.
We’re presented with an entirely new deck of cards. Some of the old cards are still there that have enormous consequence. But there’s many new things. Failed states, a whole range of things you all have heard about and talked about.
But I think with smart, sustained and steady American leadership, we can seize the opportunities that are existing and leave a more peaceful and more prosperous future to our children and grandchildren. And I really, truly believe that.
But if we turn inward, if we undermine our most important relationships, or seek soundbite solutions to defined by complexity — issues defined by complexity; if we forget who we are; if we begin to betray our values and embrace intolerance; I think we’ll squander all of the hard-earned progress, and we’ll squander the opportunities that exist for us today.
So today I’d like to take a little bit of time to describe to the world from where I sit 100 feet from the Oval Office and the stakes of the choices that lie ahead.
Let me start by making a couple things clear. One, the world in which we live today is considerably more complex and interconnected than it was a quarter of a century ago when the Cold War ended, to state the obvious. It is arguably more complex than it was even 15 years ago after 9/11. But at the same time, despite the complexities and the proliferation of new challenges, by almost any measure, the United States is stronger and more secure today than when President Obama and I took office in — January 20, 2009.
We steered the economy that was in collapse through an arduous recovery. And we’re poised to enter a period of significant resurgence. We’ve gone from crisis, to recovery, to on the verge of genuine resurgence if we seize the moment.
We remain the world’s leading economic power, and we will for some time. The next President has a tremendous opportunity to finish what was started, to amp up our rate of economic growth, and bring economic resurgence home to Americans all across the nation. We know how to grow the economy. We’ve done it before. Invest in education, job training, infrastructure. It’s not magic.
And there used to be bipartisan consensus on almost all of those things. Joe, did you ever think you’d see a day when Republicans opposed infrastructure modernization? We rank 27th in the world in transportation infrastructure. The United States of America!
If you want to see the eighth wonder of the world, go down and see the two new locks of the Panama Canal. Yet there’s only three ports from the Gulf to Maine that can accommodate these new super Panamax ships.
But a strong economy — I’ll never forget, I’ve been around so long, the first two years I served, Stuart Symington was still in the Senate. God, I’m getting old. But he had a refrain. He always talked about, our entire foreign policy rests on a strong, growing economy. It’s an obvious thing. A strong economy is the foundation of our unrivaled military, part of the layered defense we’ve built to keep America safe. And we are so tragically reminded again in Orlando where I visited last week of the dangers that exist. We have to remain vigilant against an increasing, diverse range of threats.
Throughout our administration we’ve kept laser focus on homeland security. Our intelligence and law enforcement professionals are coordinating and sharing information at an unprecedented level. We’ve invested billions of dollars since 9/11. And everyone wondered whether or not we really had made the progress we say we have made. All you got to do is compare it to what it is in Europe now, and compare what they’re now beginning to grapple with.
Our partners around the world are now sharing considerably more intelligence with us about the threats emanating from the region and from Europe; and coordinating all of us, in terms of things as basic as — I won’t go into the list in the interest of time — but just passenger records. Prior to Paris, we didn’t have access.
But our greatest strength, ultimately, and I want to get back to this, is not just the example of our power, but the power of our example. Standing up for the values protects us better than any barrier we could build between ourselves and the rest of the world because our values are what draws the world to our side. And that’s vital. Because the unrivaled network of alliances and partnerships that we have enables us to be an effective global leader. But only if we act consistent with our values.
As we continue to urge our allies to do more, denigrating our closest partners as liabilities is a serious and tragic mistake. The United States built the basic architecture of international order after the devastation of World War Two. And it has served us very, very well, and the world very well for the past seven decades.
That’s why we’ve invested so much energy to defend and extend the international rules of the road. It matters. We’ve signed historic arms control and nonproliferation agreements. We’ve led worldwide efforts to lock down nuclear materials, expand trade, protect the environment. And because of the steps we’ve taken no country is better positioned to be followed — we just need to be followed by the rest of the world — than we are.
Now, the next administration will make its own choices about how to wield American power, and how to direct our resources, but as I look forward to what they will inherit, I see three major areas that will define our engagement with the world in the coming decades. And that’s what I’d like to spend a few minutes talking about with you today.
First, seizing the possibilities that exist on both sides of the Pacific.
We are a Pacific power. I have spent more time I’m told than any world leader with President Xi. I’ve had over 25 hours in private dinners with him, just he and I, and an interpreter because of the arrangement that former President Hu and President Obama set up for us to get to know one another. I remember him asking me why we were doing what we were doing in the Pacific. I said, because we are Pacific power. We will remain a Pacific power. And I suggested that our being present was one of the reasons why they’ve been able to progress so much because of the stability that has been sustained as a consequence of our presence.
But starting right here in the Western Hemisphere, for the first time in history, it’s possible — possible — to imagine a hemisphere that is middle class, democratic, and secure from the northern reaches of Canada to Chile’s southern tip. That’s why the President turned to me one day — as he often does — and said, Joe, you do the hemisphere. Like, okay, Mr. President. You think I’m joking? I’m not joking. You do the hemisphere. He said jokingly — he said, there’s not much of a time zone change. You can do it on the weekends, and you make friends easily. So just go.
I hope he was kidding. But look, one of the reasons why we prioritize improving relationships with our neighbors, including the opening of Cuba, is our standing in the hemisphere has never been better. The quote I used when I first made a speech at the State Department with a lot of the hemispheric leaders there, I said, it’s no longer do we look at what we can do for you, it’s what we can do with you.
It matters — to go back to the original thesis, it matters how you treat other nations, the respect your show or don’t show. Challenges surely remain. But today the reason is defined by opportunities — opportunities for greater trade and economic cooperation, especially with the open of the Panama Canal and the expansion; opportunities for greater energy integration, with the United States is exporting liquefied natural gas throughout the region and beyond. Opportunities to end the long-running conflicts in the civil war in Colombia. We also have a major new initiative in the Northern Triangle to deal with a whole range of problems, but also a whole range of opportunities.
Imagine Central America, democratic and secure. Imagine what it will mean to the hemisphere if that is able to be accomplished.
And we finally move beyond these stale ideological divides. The nations of our region are ready to work with us, as never before, to tackle shared challenges like stemming migration from Central America.
The next administration should harness this momentum and build on it. But if we build walls and disrespect our neighbors, we’ll quickly see all this progress evaporated, replaced by a return of anti-Americanism, of coercion, rift throughout our hemisphere. The choices that make our region less democratic, less prosperous, and less secure actively undermine our American national interest.
On the other side of the Pacific, we’ve recharged our engagement with Asia, the world’s most consequential region. The next administration is going to inherit treaty alliances with Australia, Japan, South Korea, the Philippines. And they’re stronger than they’ve ever been.
Maintaining our alliances isn’t always easy, to state the obvious. But the United States is wealthier and safer because the world’s strongest democracies are in our corner. It’s just common sense.
But we’ve also seized historic opportunities to build relationships beyond our traditional allies, fostering democratic transition in Burma, deepening our ties with Vietnam, managing relationships with Cuba [sic**], expanding our partnership with India, working with ASEAN to advance rules-based order. These relationships complement our alliances and further support economic, political, and military foundations of America’s Pacific — America being a Pacific power through the 21st century.
As home of half the world’s population and many of the world’s fastest growing economies, we cannot afford to ignore the opportunities that exist in Asia. That’s something every single CEO in America knows. And that’s why securing a Trans-Pacific Partnership has been our top priority in this administration. It is as much a foreign policy initiative, as it is an economic initiative. We’re not there. China will fill the vacuum just by the sheer weight and size. And it will not be in our interest.
And thanks to American leadership, the deal includes provisions that raise international standards for the protection workers, protection of workers’ rights, the environment, intellectual property.
But to be frank, to be frank, this deal has a long way to go to get passed through the United States Congress. Because whether in trade, maritime security in the South China Sea, or nuclear non-proliferation in Northeast Asia, the United States has to lead by writing the rules of the road in this vital region. Otherwise we leave a vacuum that our competitors will rush to fill.
That leads me to the second key point I’d like to make. The next President will have to manage complex relationships with regional powers, powers that have the capacity to contribute to the international order or to challenge it.
Nowhere is this more pointed than in our relationship with China.
As the world’s two largest economies, our fates are unavoidably intertwined. President Obama and I have made pragmatic choices that center our relationship with China in enhanced cooperation and responsible competition.
We have found some common ground. We’ve made some historic progress to address global challenges like climate change, epidemics, development, non-proliferation.
And we stand firm when we have real disagreements over issues like human rights, trade and investment, regional security. The next administration will also have to navigate the relationship with China marked at times by breakthrough cooperation and intense cooperation — competition. Sometimes, as with the mounting threat from North Korea, cooperation and competition with China will coexist. The notion that it will be all one or all the other is short-sighted and self-defeating.
The same is true with regard to Russia where our approach is — if appropriately managed — will be marked by a complex mix of enhanced deterrence, strategic stability, and, yes, necessary cooperation.
With our partners and allies, particularly in Europe, we’ve imposed real costs on Russia for its absolute outward aggression towards Ukraine.
Russia must uphold its commitments under the Minsk agreement. There can be no backing away from that. And sanctions should remain until they do.
We’re helping Ukraine implement vital economic reforms and root out corruption. It has not been easy. Corruption is endemic in all those former “Soviet states”. But by forcing them — forcing them? Coercing them — no, not coercing them, convincing them. In that order. It takes way a significant foreign policy weapon the Russians have used so well.
Meanwhile, our moves to strengthen our European alliance and bolster NATO continue to provide a bulwark against further Russian aggression. For years, we’ve encouraged Europe to spend more on defense, diversify their sources and supplies of energy. And now we’re starting to see some progress on these fronts, and these efforts have to continue. But there’s a lot of work to do.
Embracing Putin at a time of renewed Russian aggression I believe would call into question America’s longstanding commitment to Europe whole, free and at peace. But neither is it time to dust off the Cold War playbook. We’ll have to continue cooperating with Russia where our interests overlap. And as new military technologies arise — raise the stakes of miscalculation and escalation, we need channels with Moscow to clearly communicate our intentions.
There’s an appealing moral clarity in grouping the world into friend and foe. But in reality, progress so often demands we work with those with whom we do not see eye-to-eye.
That’s why we seized the possibility of moving beyond the decades of conflict in Iran to lock in a nuclear agreement.
Iran is neither a friend nor a partner. But our willingness to engage to protect our interests, combined with international political and economic pressure on Tehran to negotiate, peacefully removed one of the greatest threats to global security: The threat of a nuclear-armed Iran.
The deal speaks for itself. It’s working. Iran is complying. Its nuclear program has been substantially rolled back.
Inspectors are on the ground. We’re not home yet, but so far. Tearing that agreement up now would only leave Iran’s nuclear program unconstrained, increase the threats to Israel and our partners in the Gulf, and turn the international community against the United States, and sharply increase the prospects of another major war in the Middle East.
The nuclear deal was never meant to resolve all of our problems with Tehran. At the same time, it has opened other opportunities for engagement on narrow issues where our interests align.
Engaging Iran is neither incompatible with, nor at the expense of, America’s ironclad commitments to our allies and partners in the Middle East, including Israel. And we continue to counter Iran’s destabilizing activities in the region. And we will.
We have all the authorities necessary to hold Iran to account. Our targeted sanctions against their ballistic missile program, their support of terrorism, their human rights violations remain firmly in place. The past seven-an-a-half years have shown time and time again that a forward-leaning engagement with the world pays huge dividends.
This brings me to the third and final point I’d like to make: The imperative for the next President to deal with complex transnational threats — because in our hyper-connected world, events anywhere can impact everywhere.
Environmental disruptions, pathogens, computer viruses, malicious ideologies — these threats don’t respect borders. And no matter what others may claim, we cannot wall ourselves off from these challenges. Even in simpler times, isolationism never offered more than a false sense of security. True security reminds us to grapple with and requires us to grapple with globalization and an interdependent world to find common solutions that span borders.
That’s what we did when we rallied the world to address Ebola — the Ebola epidemic in West Africa last year. We rejected hysterical calls for quarantines and travel bans and built our response instead around hard facts and science.
We drew on all our strengths, from our military, to our health and developmental professionals. With tireless diplomacy, we brought the world along with us. And we saved hundreds of thousands of lives.
We took a similar approach toward climate change, harnessing science, technology, and relentless diplomacy to forge the Paris agreement. And in the process, we created an historic opportunity to head off a truly existential danger — an opportunity to head it off.
We laid the foundation for a global transition toward clean, renewable energy, through unprecedented investments at home
and bold initiatives like Power Africa abroad. And we’ve demonstrated American leadership can bring our allies together with emerging powers like China, India, and Brazil to protect our planet.
But these opportunities can only be seized if the next President follows the science, recognizes the danger of doing nothing, and musters the political will to address the threats.
Terrorism and violent extremism are yet another example of the virulent transnational dangers that requires sustained global response. Al-Qaeda, ISIL, other offshoots, they’re real threats.
The horrific events in Orlando, the attacks in San Bernardino, Paris, Brussels, and elsewhere remind us — including in Turkey — remind us over and over again that terrorism can happen anywhere and does happen anywhere.
At the same time, these terrorists cannot destroy the United States. They cannot bring down our civilization. We should never underestimate America’s strength or dismiss the inherent resilience of the American people. President Obama has never hesitated to use force to defend the American people when necessary.
Just ask Osama Bin Laden and al-Qaeda’s top operatives in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Or the leaders of al-Qaeda affiliates in Yemen and Somalia. Or more than 120 ISIL top leaders and commanders.
Terrorism must — and will — be defeated. But our campaign against violent extremism must be smart and has to remain consistent with American values. The use of force should be precise and proportional. There must be a clear mission that advances U.S. interests.
And whenever possible, we should act alongside allies and partners to share the burden and invest the international community in success.
And the results have to be sustainable. Lasting victory against al-Qaeda and ISIL requires viable, local forces to hold liberated areas, rebuild shattered communities, and govern effectively.
That’s why we’ve worked with more than three dozen nations to support and train Afghan forces and to hunt down al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups in their sanctuaries. That’s what we will continue to do so.
That’s why we’ve partnered with African nations, from Nigeria to Somalia to Tunisia, to go after al-Qaeda and ISIL affiliates.
In Iraq and Syria, we’ve built a 66-nation coalition to train local forces. And we’ve carried out more than 13,000 airstrikes. We’ve provided afflicted communities with billions in humanitarian and reconstruction assistance.
And our active diplomacy continues to encourage inclusive governance in Iraq and to try to identify a path to deescalate the war in Syria.
The results? Well, we’re winning and ISIL is losing.
Over the past two years ISIL has lost 47 percent of the territory it once held in Iraq and more than 20 percent in Syria. We’ve taken out thousands of frontline fighters in the battlefield. Foreign fighter flow is down 50 percent. They’ve lost millions in revenue.
But to be sure, ISIL is resilient and barbaric, fueled by a bitter ideology of destruction. Even as they retreat from territory in Iraq and Syria, we’ll have to keep pressuring on them in Libya and elsewhere, and take the fight to them in cyberspace.
Permanently defeating this scourge will likely take years.
And it will absolutely require us to keep the world on our side.
Parenthetically, I’d note that not but two years ago, we were talking about the establishment of a caliphate that they were well on their way of doing, how that was going to bring down Saudi Arabia, Jordan, bringing chaos to the Middle East beyond what exists now. The caliphate is not a reality. And the thought of it being a reality is being crushed. But they still can do damage — just like al Qaeda without having large swaths of territory is able to do serious damage. But adopting the tactics of our enemies, using torture, threatening to kill innocent family members, indiscriminately bombing civilian populations, that not only violates our values, it’s deeply, deeply damaging to our security.
There are 1.4 billion Muslims in the world. Some of the rhetoric I’m hearing sounds designed to radicalize all 1.4 billion.
How do we win this? How do we win this long-term fight without embracing and engaging and having allies in the Islamic community in the United States, among American citizens and emigres? How do we do this without allies in the Muslim world among Shiites and Sunnis?
Wielding the politics of fear and intolerance, like the proposal to ban Muslims from entering the United States, profiling Muslim Americans, slandering entire religious communities as complicit in terrorism, calls into question America’s status as the greatest democracy in the history of the world. And in the process, alienating 1.5 million [sic***] Muslims — the vast, vast majority of whom, at home and abroad, are peace-loving, doesn’t make the situation better. It makes it worse. And it plays into the very narrative of the extremists.
Last year, ISIL’s top leader Baghdadi revealed the goal of their attacks was to “Compel the Crusaders to actively destroy the gray zone themselves. Muslims in the West will quickly find themselves between one of two choices: Either apostatize or immigrate to the Islamic State and thereby escape persecution.”
How can it be said much clearer? ISIL wants to manufacture a clash of civilizations. They want Americans to view things in terms of us versus them. Why in God’s name are we giving them what they want? And besides, we’re so much better than that.
So let me conclude with what I said at the outset. Despite the many challenges ahead, we have more opportunities than ever before. I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s capacity to lead the world to a more prosperous and peaceful future.
But our leadership does not spring from some inherent American magic. It never has.
We’ve earned it — over and over again — through hard work, discipline, good judgement. It stems from our willingness to see challenges on the horizon and step forward first to meet them.
There’s that old expression that Tom Friedman used. He said, if you don’t visit the bad neighborhood, it will eventually visit you.
From our ability to lead by example and draw partners to our side, that’s what has always been America’s greatest capability. Not empty bluster. Not a sense of entitlement that fundamentally disrespects our partners. Not an attitude, an insecurity of a bully.
The United States cannot afford to draw back from our responsibilities now. There is simply too much at stake. We need a President who can unite the Western Hemisphere and work like hell trying; continue to build our alliances and partnerships in Asia; manage extremely complex relationships with China, Russia, and Iran; and lead the world to address transnational challenges, including the persistent threat of terrorism.
I believe this is one of five times in American history we find ourselves at an inflection point. The choices we make today will steer the future of our world for the next three decades. In this moment of uncertainty, the world desperately needs steady American leadership more than ever before.
Because when America leads, the way that only we can, guided by principle, grounded in our conviction that America does best when we make sure everyone does better, no nation can match us.
And one concluding point. The dysfunction in Washington is not only crippling in terms of everything from the Supreme Court to moving from recovery to resurgence. In the 42 years I’ve been engaged in the conduct of foreign policy, I’ve never seen it have as much negative impact on our ability to conduct our foreign policy.
Many of you here are extremely sophisticated and travel the world and have deep understandings of other parts of the world. I get sent by the President — I’ve traveled over 1.2 million miles just since being Vice President. When I’m sent, it’s usually because everybody knows whatever I say is it — because they know I speak for the President. There is never any question. And I mean never.
And so on the assignments I’ve been given over the last seven years, when I get sent to meet with a head of state, trying to convince them of a particular position, if we reach agreement, I literally — and Joe is with me a lot, and I’ve been with Joe a lot — I reach across the table and shake hands.
And here’s the response I get the last four years that I never ever, ever got before. They grab my hand and say, but, Mr. Vice President, can you deliver? Let me say it again: Can you deliver?
Because every single time friend, foe, or agnostic with whom we deal, when you make a deal, it requires them to take a chance. Translated into everyday English from Wilmington, Delaware, as, look, don’t ask me to walk out on this limb and take a political hit — even in a dictatorship — unless you assure me. I don’t doubt you. I don’t doubt the President. But can you get it done in Washington?
They understand our systems much better than Americans understand theirs.
So, folks, my hope is that not only will this presidential election be behind us, but that we will begin — because I think the vast majority of Republicans up on the Hill, as well as Democrats know this is not the way to do business. They know it.
Joe, I spoke with 17 Republican senators just on the Supreme Court. All 17 say, Joe, I know you’re right. But don’t ask me to move yet, Joe. This will happen to me.
The American public is sick and tired of the dysfunction. The instinct is to throw all the rascals out. But I’m convinced that we are in a domestic inflection point, too; that my colleagues are beginning to listen more closely to the pattern of the cadence of the political process out there. So my hope is these next four years will be much better positioned with a President who understands and Congress that can vehemently disagree, but ultimately concludes there has to be compromise. If that occurs, and it will occur, it may not occur in the next two years, but it will occur, there is not a single thing that we can’t do as a country.
I thank you all for being so gracious and listening, and I really — there’s so much talent out here, I just — if you’re ever going to be involved, man, this is the moment. This is the moment.
Thank you all so very, very much.
In over 45 years of working in global affairs, I’ve observed a simple truth: America’s ability to lead the world depends not just on the example of our power, but on the power of our example.
American democracy is rooted in the belief that every man, woman and child has equal rights to freedom and dignity. While the United States is far from perfect, we have never given up the struggle to grow closer to the ideals in our founding documents.
The constant American endeavor to live by our values is a great strength that has drawn generations of strivers and dreamers to the United States, enriching our population. Around the world, other nations follow our lead because they know that America does not simply protect its own interests, but tries to advance the aspirations of all.
This has stood as the foundation of American foreign policy throughout my political career — until recently.
Around the world, including in the United States, we are seeing the resurgence of a worldview that is closed off and clannish. President Trump keeps longstanding allies such as Germany at arm’s length, while expressing admiration for autocrats like Vladimir V. Putin who thwart democratic institutions.
Rather than building from a narrative of freedom and democracy that inspires nations to rally together, this White House casts global affairs as a zero-sum competition — for the United States to succeed, others must lose. Among the many problems that plague the Trump administration’s foreign policy, this line of thinking is perhaps the most disturbing.
During a speech in July, Mr. Trump said, “The fundamental question of our time is whether the West has the will to survive.” This statement divides the world into “us” and “them.” No American political figure has so narrowly defined our interests since the period between the world wars.
Mr. Trump’s shameful defense of the white nationalists and neo-Nazis who unleashed hatred and violence in Charlottesville, Va., further abnegated America’s moral leadership. Not since the Jim Crow era has an American president so misunderstood and misrepresented our values.
Most recently, the Trump administration’s order to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals — punishing young people brought to this country by their parents, many of whom know no home but the United States — betrays an unnecessary cruelty that further undermines America’s standing in the world.
When Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson said that it was important to “understand the difference between policy and values,” he wrote off the very thing that makes the United States exceptional. And at a time when democratic values are under siege around the globe — from populist attacks that undermine confidence in democratic institutions to leaders who try to bolster their power by closing the space for civil society and rolling back citizens’ rights — the world cannot afford to have America cede the field to illiberalism and intolerance.
Placing American democratic values back at the center of our foreign policy does not mean we should impose our principles abroad or refuse to talk with nations whose policies run counter to them. There will always be times when keeping Americans safe requires working with those whom we find distasteful. But even when we must make those hard choices, we can never forget who we are and the future we seek.
Reclaiming our values starts with standing up for them at home — inclusivity, tolerance, diversity, respect for the rule of law, freedom of speech, freedom of the press. If these are the democratic principles we wish to see around the world, America must be the first to model them.
These are also the values that tie us to our closest allies — the friends we depend on to address major global challenges. They must believe that the United States will continue to support them and to stand up for democracy.
Leading with our values also means that we speak out when nations violate their citizens’ rights. If leaders repress their own people, we must make clear that it constrains our ability to cooperate with them. We can meet our security imperatives without giving a green light to dictators who abuse universal human rights.
Finally, a foreign policy built on our values must stand firm against foreign powers that celebrate a perceived withdrawal of American leadership as an opportunity to increase their influence. Without the United States standing as a bulwark for global democracy, illiberal powers like Russia will take increasingly aggressive steps to disrupt the international order, bully their neighbors and return to a more divided world.
From the Marshall Plan after World War II to our alliances in East Asia, both Republican and Democratic officials have long embraced a vision of American leadership that fosters a more secure, inclusive and generous planet. That ideal made the world safer and more prosperous — for Americans and everyone else.
The international community still needs a strong, democratic America leading the way. And the good news is that the United States remains better positioned than any other country to shape the direction of the 21st century. But to succeed, we cannot abandon the tenets that we fought so hard to defend over the past seven decades — ideals that magnified American leadership and produced the greatest increase in global prosperity in history.
You cannot define Americans by what they look like, where they come from, whom they love or how they worship. Only our democratic values define us. And if we lose sight of this in our conduct at home or abroad, we jeopardize the respect that has made the United States the greatest nation on earth.