My fellow Americans, tonight I’m speaking to you because there is a growing humanitarian and security crisis at our southern border.
Every day, Customs and Border Protection agents encounter thousands of illegal immigrants trying to enter our country. We are out of space to hold them, and we have no way to promptly return them back home to their country. America proudly welcomes millions of lawful immigrants who enrich our society and contribute to our nation, but all Americans are hurt by uncontrolled illegal migration.
It strains public resources and drives down jobs and wages. Among those hardest hit are African-Americans and Hispanic-Americans. Our southern border is a pipeline for vast quantities of illegal drugs including meth, heroin, cocaine, and fentanyl. Every week, 300 of our citizens are killed by heroin alone. Ninety percent of which floods across from our southern border. More Americans will die from drugs this year than were killed in the entire Vietnam War.
In the last two years, ICE officers made 266,000 arrests of aliens with criminal records including those charged or convicted of 100,000 assaults, 30,000 sex crimes, and 4,000 violent killings. Over the years, thousands of Americans have been brutally killed by those who illegally entered our country and thousands more lives will be lost if we don’t act right now.
This is a humanitarian crisis. A crisis of the heart, and a crisis of the soul. Last month, 20,000 migrant children were illegally brought into the United States, a dramatic increase. These children are used as human pawns by vicious coyotes and ruthless gangs. One in three women are sexually assaulted on the dangerous trek up through Mexico. Women and children are the biggest victims, by far, of our broken system.
This is the tragic reality of illegal immigration on our southern border. This is the cycle of human suffering that I am determined to end. My administration has presented Congress with a detailed proposal to secure the border and stop the criminal gangs, drug smugglers, and human traffickers. It’s a tremendous problem.
Our proposal was developed by law enforcement professionals and border agents at the Department of Homeland Security. These are the resources they have requested to properly perform their mission and keep America safe. In fact, safer than ever before.
The proposal from homeland security includes cutting edge technology for detecting drugs, weapons, illegal contraband and many other things. We have requested more agents, immigration judges to process the sharp rise of unlawful migration fueled by our very strong economy.
Our plan also contains an urgent request for humanitarian assistance and medical support. Furthermore, we have asked Congress to close border security loopholes so that illegal immigrant children can be safely and humanely returned back home.
Finally, as part of an overall approach to border security, law enforcement professionals have requested $5.7 billion for a physical barrier. At the request of Democrats it will be a steel barrier rather than a concrete wall. This barrier is absolutely critical to border security. It’s also what our professionals at the border want and need. This is just common sense.
The border wall would very quickly pay for itself. The cost of illegal drugs exceeds $500 billion a year. Vastly more than the $5.7 billion we have requested from Congress. The wall will also be paid for indirectly by the great new trade deal we have made with Mexico.
Senator Chuck Schumer, who you will be hearing from later tonight, has repeatedly supported a physical barrier in the past along with many other Democrats. They changed their mind only after I was elected president.
Democrats in Congress have refused to acknowledge the crisis and they have refused to provide our brave border agents with the tools they desperately need to protect our families and our nation.
The federal government remains shut down for one reason, and one reason only, because Democrats will not fund border security. My administration is doing everything in our power to help those impacted by the situation, but the only solution is for Democrats to pass a spending bill that defends our borders and reopens the government.
This situation could be solved in a 45 minute meeting. I have invited congressional leadership to the White House tomorrow to get this done. Hopefully we can rise above partisan politics in order to support national security.
Some have suggested a barrier is immoral. Then why do wealthy politicians build walls, fences, and gates around their homes? They don’t build walls because they hate the people on the outside but because they love the people on the inside. The only thing that is immoral is the politicians to do nothing and continue to allow more innocent people to be so horribly victimized.
America’s heart broke the day after Christmas when a young police officer in California was savagely murdered in cold blood by an illegal alien, just came across the border. The life of an American hero was stolen by someone who had no right to be in our country. Day after day, precious lives are cut short by those who have violated our borders.
In California, an air force veteran was raped, murdered, and beaten to death with a hammer by an illegal alien with a long criminal history. In Georgia, an illegal alien was recently charged with murder for killing, beheading, and dismembering his neighbor. In Maryland, MS-13 gang members who arrived in the United States as unaccompanied minors were arrested and charged last year after viciously stabbing and beating a 16-year-old girl.
Over the last several years I have met with dozens of families whose loved ones were stolen by illegal immigration. I have held the hands of the weeping mothers and embraced the grief stricken fathers. So sad, so terrible. I will never forget the pain in their eyes, the tremble in their voices, and the sadness gripping their souls. How much more American blood must we shed before Congress does its job?
To those who refuse to compromise in the name of border security, I would ask, imagine if it was your child, your husband, or your wife whose life was so cruelly shattered and totally broken. To every member of Congress: pass a bill that ends this crisis. To every citizen, call Congress, and tell them to finally, after all of these decades, secure our border.
This is a choice between right and wrong, justice and injustice. This is about whether we fulfill our sacred duty to the American citizens we serve. When I took the oath of office, I swore to protect our country and that is what I will always do so help me god.
Thank you and good night.
Well, thank you very much. It’s great to be with President Macron of France. And we’ve had a fairly long relationship and a very good one. And we were just discussing certain things, and then we’re going to have a long conversation afterwards. I want to, first of all, before we begin, I want to pay my respects to the great warriors that you lost in Mali -- 13, and helicopters.
It was very sad. I’ve gotten a report on it. We talked about it. And please give my condolences to the families and to France. And they’re great fighters. You’ve done a fantastic job in that whole area. It’s a tough area. So we appreciate it very much. And we’ll be talking about a lot of things, including NATO and including trade.
We do a lot of trade with France, and we have a minor dispute. I think we’ll probably be able to work it out. But we have a big trade relationship, and I’m sure that, within a short period of time, things will be looking very rosy, we hope. And that’s usually the case with the two of us. We get it worked out.
Well, we just began discussing NATO. And what I’m liking about NATO is that a lot of countries have stepped up, I think, really at my behest. And to -- also, yourself, you’re close to the level. But they’ve stepped up and they’ve put up a lot of money. I told you, it was $130 million -- $130 billion.
And that's a lot. And they’re now stepping up again. It’s going to be $400 billion over a very short -- we have commitments for $400 billion. And we just left the Secretary General. And he -- he’s got some things that are very important. And I discussed with him the flexibility, so that we have it not just with one area of the world -- you and I discuss this all the time -- we have all areas of the world, because NATO is a lot different than it was.
So NATO, which was really heading in the wrong direction three years ago -- it was heading down. If you look at a graph, it was to a point where I don’t think they could have gone on much longer. Now it’s actually very strong and getting stronger. Many people are committed to that 2 percent. And ultimately, I think the 2 percent will be raised.
They -- you know, they’re less than 1 percent. You have a couple that are less than 1 percent. Not fair. So NATO has made a lot of progress over the last three years, and the word “flexibility” is very important. They’re not just looking at one area now; they’re looking at the world. And that’s very important.
And I do share this statement. That’s why I’m a strong supporter of a stronger European component in NATO, which is exactly what we have done. So, in terms of cost sharing, we are investing 1.9 percent of our GDP. We are increasing our GDP. We will be at [Inaudible]. But when we speak about NATO, it’s not just about money.
We have to be respectful these are our soldiers. The first burden we share, the first cost we pay, is our soldiers’ lives. And I do believe that, in such circumstances, we do pay what we have to pay for collective security. When I look at the situation in Syria, in Iraq, but as well as Sahel, France is definitely present.
It’s my first point, is that we have, today, strategy clarifications to be done. It’s impossible just to say, “We have to put money, we have to put soldiers.” We have to be clear on the fundamentals of what NATO should be. And this is not the case today. What about peace in Europe? I want clarification about that.
After the decision of the end of the INF Treaty, we have to build something new. Because now this is a risk for Germany, France, and a lot of European countries to have new missiles coming from Russia, exposing us. We need such a clarification. And I want the European component to be part of the future negotiations of such a new INF Treaty.
And I’m sorry to say that we don’t have the same definition of terrorism around the table. When I look at Turkey, they now are fighting against those who fight with us, who fought with us, shoulder to shoulder, against ISIS. And sometimes they work with ISIS forces. This is an issue, and this is a strategic issue.
If we just have discussion about what we pay, and we don’t have clear discussions about the situation, we are not serious; we are not serious for our soldiers, we are not serious for our people. This is the very reason of my statements. I do believe we need strategic clarifications: How to build long-term peace in Europe.
Who is the enemy today? And let’s be clear and work all together on that. I know that we do share exactly the same view. Having less [Inaudible] exposure of the U.S. means more European investment and more [Inaudible] on the European side. I do agree. Being strict and very efficient against terrorist groups means having clear, clear definition of these groups and no ambiguity.
Well, one thing I will also -- I’d like to say that you’ve been really doing a great job in Africa, and you’ve been very much involved there, more than most. And that’s been fantastic. I appreciate you saying the United States, for decades, have been paying, really, way, way disproportionately too much for NATO. And you’d have other countries paying far too little that are very directly benefitted by it and by the United States involvement.
Well, thank you very much, everybody. A question was asked just a little while ago about supporting the people protesting in Iran and are going through a very tough period. And we do support them totally and have supported them from the beginning. The question was asked: "Do we support them" -- I thought -- "financially?" And we haven't supported them.
I don't know that we've ever been actually asked to support them, financially. And I -- you know, if somebody asked, maybe we would. But we support them very, very seriously. The people that are protesting in Iran, they're looking for their freedom, and we are fully in support of them. So I wanted to -- just in case anybody had any questions.
We haven't been asked to support them, financially, which I assume that's what the question was. But just to make sure everybody understood it. It's an honor to be with a friend of mine who just had a great election victory. Congratulations.
And done a very good job. And we actually have a very good relationship and a good relationship, in terms of our countries. We're working on the USMCA. We're trying to get Nancy Pelosi to put it up for a vote. You know, if it gets put up for a vote, it passes. But, so far, she hasn't decided to do that.
It's up to her. It's actually -- a single individual has the -- the Speaker of the House -- it's that person's decision, and she's the Speaker of the House. And it's a great deal for Mexico and for Canada and for the United States. And it's a lot of jobs for everybody, and it replaces a deal that's really a lousy deal, a bad deal, for -- I can tell you -- I can't refer to you, but I would say, for the United States, that the deal that we have right now is terrible -- NAFTA. Terrible.
Thank you very much, everybody. We're having a great year. This has been an amazing year for our economy. And meeting these athletes -- they're real athletes, I can tell you. It's a tremendous achievement. And we're bringing many of them over to the Oval Office. I guess all of them. So far, nobody has turned that one down -- [Laughter] -- because it is a special place.
Well, it certainly does. And they were spying on my campaign and it went right up to the top. And everybody knows it. And now we're going to find out. You have Bull Durham, who's supposed to be the toughest. I've never met him. Never spoke to him. But he's supposed to be the smartest and th­­e best. And he works for Bill Barr, who is a great attorney general.
We would have maybe invented this thing a lot sooner had he been there originally. But you have some people that are great people, now, and -- patriotic people. They love our country. This was spying on my campaign, something that has never been done in the history of our country. This was an overthrow attempt at the presidency.
They tried to overthrow the presidency. This is a disgrace. But what -- I'm not surprised to see; it's just starting to come out. I think this is nothing compared that what you'll see over the next couple of weeks.
These people are sick.
So my conversation was a perfect conversation. The Ukrainian president said, "What are they talking about?" There must think we're nuts in this country. And this conversation was flawless. It was appropriate. It was perfect. It was nice. It was everything. And they even said that. They came out and said it. Now, compare that -- as they try to impeach, and by the way, they've looked like fools over the last five days, as these interviews were -- these were their witnesses.
This was the best they've got. Adam Schiff is a sick puppy. He is a -- it's pretty incredible. Now, what you're going to see, I predict, will be perhaps the biggest scandal in the history of our country, political scandal. But I guess that's the biggest, because what's more important than a political --?
I think you're going to see things that are going to be incredible, if it's done right. And I purposely stay out. I tell Bill Barr to handle everything. I wouldn't have to, I could get very much involved, but I purposely don't. And I haven't. And you know what? It's better that way, I guess. I don't have any obligation, legally, to do that, but I've let them handle it. So you have a FISA report coming out, which the word is it's "historic." That's what the word is. That's what I hear.
And if it's historic, you're going to see something. Then perhaps even more importantly, you have Durham coming out shortly thereafter. He's the U.S. attorney, and he's already announced it's criminal. And we'll see what happens. But --
I'll tell you what. You have a lot of very, very bad people. And, you know, a lot of people say, "deep state." I don't like to use the word "deep state." So I just say they're really bad and sick people.
You're dealing at the highest levels of government. They were spying on my campaign. This is my opinion. I said it a long time ago. Remember when I put out a tweet and I talked about the "wiretapping" in quotes, meaning modern day version of whatever wiretapping may be. And all hell broke loose.
And just to show how incompetent they were, they spent millions and millions of dollars. Hillary Clinton paid for it and the Democrats, a lot of it had to do, they say, with Ukraine.
It's like a massive wall? Yes. Why aren't they putting up money? How come it's always the United States that puts up money, the suckers? Why is it always the United States? And these are the questions I ask and continue to ask him.
Good. Well, wait a second. Two Supreme Court justices. Within a few weeks, we'll have one hundred and eighty-two federal judges. It's a record. So I've done more than anybody that ever had.
The position to [Inaudible] But they haven't made it pleasant. They're bad people. They hurt a lot of innocent people. People came down here, they got served subpoenas by Mueller and the crew. And they went through two and a half years. They found nothing. So why would you say that? I think we've had the most productive presidency ever for the first two and a half years.
I can't tell you that. I can only say that we have a lot of information that a lot of bad things happened. And when you look at Strzok and Page with the insurance policy, where, you know -- the two lovers, the two great lovers from the FBI. Where he's saying, "Oh, she's going to win 100 million to nothing, but just in case she loses, we have an insurance policy." Well, that means, you know, "We're going to take him down.
We're going to take down the president." You wouldn't even believe this is possible. But the insurance policy is a very big find. Finding that text. And the only reason we found it was they didn't want to use their private servers for a very bad reason. Okay? So they use the public server. They use the FBI server.
So here's the thing. We have so many -- regardless of what's coming out, okay? The information that we have now is beyond belief already. But what they have coming out, I hear, is historic. That's the way it was explained. I heard some stories.
Fake news is part of it. You know, the Democrats and the fake news, they're one and the same. They will downplay it because I like -- I see these hearings where we have a great day. And then you pick up the phony New York Times, which is a total phony paper -- I don't read it anywhere, you can't read it. It's not even -- it has no relationship to the truth.
And you read a story that took place, and they don't tell you what happened. They only put in the bad. They don't put in the good. Same thing with The Washington Post. It's a phony paper. We don't have it in the White House.
No, not at all. And let me tell you, he's a sick puppy. He's so sick. This guy is so -- I’ve been going through it for two and a half years about Russia. I've been tougher on Russia than any president in history. But for two and a half years, I've had to listen. This was their talking point, Trump and Russia.
And if you take a look at it, just look at the facts. Even look at what I've done for Ukraine by giving them tank busters, by giving them stuff. And Obama would send pillows and sheets. He wouldn't send anything else. It's the whole thing. Now Schiff, remember this? He makes it all up. He's sick. There's something wrong with him.
So he made up my phone call. He made it up. He made up a phone call. And then when I released it, everybody was embarrassed. And crazy Nancy Pelosi, who, by the way, is going to go down as the worst speaker in the history of the House of Representatives, she hasn't done anything. Well, she said she's like paralyzed.
Yeah, well, that's total nonsense. I do want -- always corruption. I say that to anybody. Why should we give money to a country that's known corrupt? It's a very corrupt country. I mean, I love the people in Ukraine. I know Ukrainian people. They're great people. But it's known as being the third most corrupt country in the world.
And all of the money that’s been raised and all of these countries that are all of the sudden putting up money, it’s a great thing to see. But we do have a great -- we really have a different objective, I think, right now. We’re looking at a much bigger picture. And that includes -- well, it includes -- you mentioned Iraq, but it really includes Iran, too.
I think that if you look at what’s going on in Iran, they have massive riots. They’re having protests all over the country. And they’re killing a lot of people. Everybody knows that. That’s why they turned off their Internet systems, so nobody can find out. But if the media would go there -- and it’s, I think, very hard for the media to go there, frankly, right now.
But they’re killing a lot of people. But NATO has come a long way in three years, and it’s something that we’re very proud of, because we’re with them. NATO serves a fantastic function if everybody is involved. If they’re not involved -- and I really believe that the President is very much involved and likes the idea of NATO, but he wants it also to be utilized properly.
And that's the way we looked at it right from the beginning. So we hope that's the case. Again, congratulations. We're going to be talking about a number of subjects, including additional trade to that, and the military and the military presence. And it's great being at NATO. We had some real success, I think, and some very successful talks having to do with NATO. As you know, a lot of the countries have stepped up and they're putting in at least 130 -- probably the exact number is $131 billion -- more.
In his first year in office, President Trump took action to protect America’s critical steel and aluminum industries, which were harmed by unfair trade practices and global excess capacity.
After an investigation, the Trump Administration found that global dumping of steel and aluminum had critically weakened the United States capacity to produce steel and aluminum in times with national security implications.
The President exercised his authority to impose a 25 percent global tariff on steel imports and a 10 percent global tariff on aluminum imports in order to protect our national security.
The tariffs on steel and aluminum will reduce imports to levels needed for domestic industries to achieve long-term viability.
In turn, the strengthening of our domestic steel and aluminum industries reduces our reliance on foreign producers.
As a result, these industries will be able to re-open closed mills, sustain a skilled workforce, and maintain or increase production.
Upon entering office, the Trump Administration began renegotiations of trade agreements that contribute to the U.S. trade deficit and harmed American workers.
One of President Trump’s first actions was to withdraw the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, advancing his agenda to protect American workers.
The President kept his promise to roll back the Obama Administration's bad deal on Cuba that benefited the Cuban regime at the expense of the Cuban people.
The Treasury Department and State Department placed sanction on Cuba to channel economic activity away from the Cuban government, particularly the military, and towards the people of Cuba
With the completion of the United States-Mexico-Canada trade agreement, the Trump Administration successfully fulfilled President Trump’s promise to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement.
The USMCA is a modern trade agreement that opens new markets for U.S. farmers and manufacturers, will encourage increased manufacturing in the U.S., and allow workers and small businesses to flourish.
The Trump Administration made enforcement of U.S. trade laws a top priority and has continually exercised its ability to block harmful trade practices and exchanges.
To defend U.S. national security interests, President Trump blocked a foreign company from acquiring a U.S. business for only the fourth time in history.
Since President Trump was sworn into office, the Department of Commerce has initiated 79 antidumping and countervailing duties (AD/CVD) investigations.
The U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) self-initiated a Section 301 investigation into whether Chinese policies, acts, and practices related to technology transfer, licensing, and intellectual property are unreasonable or discriminatory.This is the first use of Section 301 since 2001.
The Administration blocked the state backed Chinese phone company Huawei from operating in the U.S.
The President’s Administration conducted 82 antidumping and countervailing duty investigations in 2017.
This was a 58 percent increase in investigations over 2016.
In January 2017, the President announced new safeguard tariffs on imported large residential washing machines and solar cells.
The Trump Administration successfully litigated WTO disputes targeting unfair trade practices and protected our right to enact fair trade laws.
In February 2018, USTR won a WTO compliance challenge against China’s unfair antidumping and countervailing duties on U.S. poultry exports, and China announced the termination of those duties.
In November 2017, the United States won a WTO dispute regarding Indonesia’s unfair import licensing regime restricting U.S. agricultural exports.
In October 2017, a WTO compliance panel found that U.S. tuna labeling rules designed to inform consumers about safe fishing practices were consistent with WTO standards.
In September 2017, the WTO rejected allegations by the European Union that Boeing was receiving prohibited subsidies.
In June 2017, a WTO compliance panel rejected almost all claims by the European Union that alleged U.S. subsidies to Boeing were causing serious prejudice to Airbus, instead finding that 28 of 29 challenged programs were consistent with WTO rules.
CRACKING DOWN ON CHINA FOR ITS TRADE CHEATING
 
The President directed his Administration to consider a range of actions to respond to China’s acts, policies, and practices involving the unfair and harmful acquisition of U.S. technology.
In August, the Trump Administration launched an investigation under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 into Chinese acts, policies, and practices related to technology transfer, intellectual property, and innovation.
This was the first Section 301 investigation since 2013.
The U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) confronted China’s discriminatory technology licensing practices through a World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute proceeding.
USTR led an extensive investigation based on a thorough analysis of evidence and comments received from academics, think tanks, law firms, trade associations, and American companies and workers.
The investigation concluded that China forces U.S. companies seeking to license technologies to Chinese entities to do so on non-market based terms.
China imposes contractual restrictions on the licensing of intellectual property and foreign technology into their country but does not put the same restrictions on contracts between two Chinese enterprises.
The investigation concluded that China directs and unfairly facilitates investments and acquisitions to generate large-scale technology transfers from U.S. companies to Chinese entities.
A Chinese government-backed fund helped Apex Technologies Co., a Chinese investment consortium, acquire a U.S. computer-printer maker which had previously sued Apex over patent infringement.
The investigation concluded that China conducts and supports cyber intrusions into U.S. companies to access their sensitive commercial information, such as trade secrets.
In 2014, the U.S charged five Chinese military hackers for cyber-espionage committed against U.S. corporations and a labor organization for commercial advantage.
An interagency analysis estimated that China's unfair acts, policies, and practices caused tens of billions in dollars in damages to the United States each year.
In response to China’s rampant trade cheating, the Trump Administration has placed 25 percent tariffs on approximately $250 billion worth of products that are supported by China’s unfair industrial policies
RESTORING AMERICA'S FOREIGN POLICY:President Trump has gone around the globe working to restorebolster our allies and restore America’s prominence in global diplomacy
President Trump went on a historic 12-day tour through Asia, including visits to five countries and attended three regional summits to promote America’s interests.
South Korea and Japan pledged to build closer defense collaboration with the United States, and the President underscored the commitment of the United States to providing advanced military equipment.
Cooperation was boosted between the Quad countries (the United States, Japan, India and Australia) on the sidelines of ASEAN in Manila.
President Trump reaffirmed the commitment of the United States to promote prosperity and security in the region by modernizing America’s development finance institutions and increasing their coordination with Japanese counterparts.
President Trump traveled to the Middle East and Europe to solidify relations with our allies in both regions and to push for greater commitments and cooperation.
President Trump visited Mecca, Jerusalem, and Rome, three of the world’s holiest places.
In Saudi Arabia, President Trump pushed for a coalition of nations to confront Iran and attended the opening of the Global Center for Combating Extremist Ideology.
President Trump persuaded allies to develop national plans to boost defense spending up to two percent of GDP by 2024, and for NATO to formally join the coalition to defeat ISIS at the 2017 NATO Leaders’ meeting.
President Trump visited Poland and a meeting of the G-20, where he pushed for closer cooperation and American First policies.
With G20 partners and the World Bank, the U.S. championed the establishment of the Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative (WeFi), which could leverage in excess of $1 billion in financing to support women entrepreneurs
President Trump followed through on his promise and recognized Jerusalem as the capital of the State of Israel and directed the relocation of the U.S. Embassy. After announcing the United States' recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, President Trump quickly and efficiently opened the Embassy in Israel at a low cost to taxpayers.
The State Department announced the new US Embassy in Israel would move to Jerusalem.
The Trump Administration withdrew from UNESCO to show it would not stand for the anti-Israel bias of the organization.
In December 2018, the United States officially recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.
On May 14, 2018, the United States officially opened our Embassy in Jerusalem, Israel, 70 years to the day that President Truman recognized Israel as an independent country, making the United States the first nation to do so.
In 2019, the Trump Administration recognized the Golan Heights as part of Israel becoming the first country to officially do so.
Under President Trump, the United States has worked tirelessly to combat extremism and stick up for religious minorities.
During his first international trip, President Trump pushed for a coalition of nations to confront Iran and attended the opening of the Global Center for Combating Extremist Ideology. It was created to empower Muslim-majority countries in fighting radicalization.
President Trump directed the State Department to send aid through USAID directly to Christians and other minorities facing genocide in the Middle East.