Our planet is a mess.
The past four years have been the four hottest on record, and July 2019 was the hottest month ever recorded. Greenland is expected to lose 440 billion tons of ice this year, a rate that was the “worst-case scenario” for 2070. The West is on fire, the middle of the country is flooded, and the Atlantic is seeing hurricanes of increasing frequency and intensity. In Alaska, salmon are dying because of the heat. All the while, the top 5 US oil and gas companies posted revenues over $760 billion (1), and the federal government subsidized the industry to the tune of $26 billion annually (2).
Climate change is an existential threat, and we need to recognize that we’re already living through the negative effects. The increase in natural disasters is costing us hundreds of billions of dollars, and the total cost of climate change will run into the trillions while taking an untold number of lives. And the people who are most affected by these impacts of climate change are the least able to deal with it – economically disadvantaged and minority communities face a disproportionate burden.
The right time to deal with this crisis was decades ago. We’ve waited too long, so we need to act fast and recognize that all options need to be on the table in order to adapt to the changed world we live in while mitigating behaviors that make it worse and reversing the damage we’ve already done. We can’t dismiss any ideas – especially not those that have support from the scientific community – or rule anything out because it doesn’t fit our ideological framework.
Why have we so far barely made a dent in what we need to do in order to combat this crisis? When 78% of our fellow Americans are living paycheck to paycheck, it’s hard to mobilize people to care about the massive problem of climate change. Many think, “I can’t pay my bills. The penguins will have to wait.” It’s impossible to think about the future if you can’t feed your kids today. We need to get the economic boot off of the throats of our fellow Americans so everyone can get their heads up and start facing this threat head-on.
We need to bring the full force of America to bear on this problem, or we will fail, and the world will suffer. My approach is five-pronged:
Build a sustainable economy by transitioning away from fossil fuels to renewable energy, upgrading our infrastructure, and improving the way we farm and use land. Public financing options will allow individuals to make the right decisions for their families.
Build a sustainable world. The United States, throughout history, has led the world in times of crisis. We’re the most entrepreneurial country in the history of the world. It’s time to activate the American imagination and work ethic to provide the innovation and technology that will power the rest of the world.
Move our people to higher ground. Natural disasters and other effects of climate change are already causing damage and death. We need to adapt our country to this new reality.
Reverse the damage we’ve done. Research needs to be done on removing carbon from our atmosphere, cooling the planet and rejuvenating ecosystems.
Hold future administrations accountable. We need to pass a constitutional amendment that creates a duty on the federal and state governments to be stewards for the environment.
Climate change is big, and it is scary. It’s destabilizing the world, and it’s costing American lives.
But it’s also a massive opportunity.
We can make the United States the center of a new global, sustainable energy sector. This will bring money to the American people, and will create jobs in installation and maintenance that will be local and less likely to be automated. It will also reduce a primary source of income used by some of our biggest adversaries (Russia, Iran, Venezuela all rely on oil, and terrorist organizations utilize it as a primary fundraising mechanism). We can save the world for our children, make the environment healthier, and build a much stronger economy. We need to come together and get back to what America is all about – innovation, hard work, and solving the biggest problems the world is facing.
Let’s go, America.
While America has undoubtedly made mistakes, we’ve been a positive force in world history, leading to the spread of peace, prosperity, and democracy. Presidents from JFK to Ronald Reagan maintained strong relationships with allies while sending clear and honest messages to those who would work against us.
Over the past several decades, we have engaged in conflicts that have cost us trillions of dollars and thousands of American lives. These misadventures have destabilized parts of the world, made enemies of allies, and resulted in untold human suffering, both for our brave soldiers and civilians of other countries.  
While an unfathomable amount of money has been spent on military engagements that have accomplished little, our infrastructure has started to collapse, and our people are living paycheck to paycheck and falling prey to ills like drug abuse. We need to make sure we are strong at home if we are going to successfully project our values abroad.
It’s impossible to be a leader when you have no allies, and so we need to rebuild our relationships with the rest of the world.  Leveraging these relationships, we can more effectively deal with international issues. Working with our allies will make us stronger and more able to accomplish our goals over time.
The advancement of technology in America has driven the advancement of humanity nationally and globally. But technology has also outpaced our government’s understanding of it, and regulations are falling short of protecting us from Big Tech companies that are prioritizing profits over our well-being.
Today, we live in a hyper-connected environment, led by these tech companies, that has impacted our culture, lifestyles, families, and politics. The culture of innovation and the quality of human capital in America has fostered the growth of this industry over the past couple of decades to create trillion-dollar tech companies, in a framework of self-regulation.
But the benefits these services have given us have begun to clash with the wellbeing of society. 
Big Tech companies are the winners of the 21st century economy. They’ve amassed too much power, largely profiting from our personal data, and unaccountable responsibility—we have reached a point where the government needs to step in. And we’re starting to take notice, with about 50% of US adults1 favoring more regulation on tech firms. These companies themselves are asking for regulation (until you propose specifics).
Unfortunately, our government is unequipped to handle it. We dissolved the Office of Technology Assessment in 19952. Recent hearings3 with tech CEOs like Mark Zuckerberg exposed the lack of basic understanding of technology by members of our Congress. 
Digital giants such as Facebook, Amazon, Google, and Apple have scale and power that renders them more quasi-sovereign states than conventional companies. They’re making decisions on rights that government usually makes, like speech and safety. Their business models are predicated on keeping people engaged, driven by algorithms that are supercharged by technology to predict our behavior, such as artificial intelligence and machine learning, and that feed off of our data, creating an increasing asymmetry of power without any accountability. 
The most concerning of all is the effect technology and social media platforms are having on our kids. Technology, smartphones, and tablets are ubiquitous. Our kids have access to them from infancy. They’re getting hooked, from a young age, on apps and platforms that function as dopamine slot machines, potentially destroying the psyches of a generation. It’s affecting our kids’ mental and physical health, contributing to obesity, sleep deprivation, posture issues, stunting social skills, and blurring the lines between real and virtual relationships. It’s time to take action.
We need to come up with 21st century solutions to these problems. 
My approach is four pronged:
Regulate the use of data and privacy by establishing data as a property right. The associated rights will enable individuals to retain ownership and share in the economic value generated by their data.
Minimize health impacts of modern tech on our people, particularly our children. I will create a Department of the Attention Economy that focuses on smartphones, social media, gaming, and apps, and how to responsibly design and use them, including age restrictions and guidelines.
Stop the spread of misinformation that is eroding trust in our institutions and fanning the flames of polarization in our society. I will scale up VAT on digital ads to hasten a shift away from ad-driven business models, require disclosures on all ads, regulate bot activity, and regulate algorithms, addressing the grey area between publishers and platforms.
Adopt a 21st century approach to regulation that increases the knowledge and capacity of government while using new metrics to determine competitiveness and quickly identifies emerging tech in need of regulation. 
Applying 20th century solutions to 21st century problems is not the right way to go. Measures such as breaking up big tech companies to foster competition wouldn’t necessarily address the fundamental problems. Breaking up Google into 5 mini-Googles wouldn’t change much as people don’t want to use the fourth best search engine. Network effects would eventually turn out a dominant player. That’s why we are taking a modern approach. 
This is a New Way Forward. 
 
1. Data as a Property Right, and Increased Privacy Protections
Each of us generates a significant amount of data each day4 during the normal course of our activities, and our data is now worth more than oil.5 Our phones and computers track our movement and actions, while our browsers and websites track our online activities. As we’ve seen, some of the largest tech companies can know more about us and our lives than our families and those closest to us. That’s what happens when about 90%6 of all online searches globally are done on just one platform. 
As of now, that data is owned by the people who collect it, and they’re allowed to do anything they want with it. They’ve sold it, used it to target us with advertisements, and have analyzed the vast quantity of data to draw conclusions on whole populations, allowing them to monetize it.  At this rate, the extraction of personal data is America’s fastest growing industry, worth $197.7 billion by 2022.7
We’ve also seen it abused. Some companies haven’t done enough to protect our data, resulting in breaches that have made our private information insecure. Others have sold it to disreputable companies, allowing them to target us for everything from marketing fraudulent services to influencing elections. Companies themselves have asked for better and clearer rules. This breach in American privacy and data security requires regulation of ongoing data collection. 
If our data is being used, we need to know how it’s being used and how we’re being compensated for it. We also need to regain control of it when we want. By implementing measures to increase transparency in the data collection and monetization process, individuals can begin to reclaim ownership of what’s theirs.
Data generated by each individual needs to be owned by them, with certain rights conveyed that will allow them to know how it’s used and protect it. These rights include:
The right to be informed as to what data will be collected, and how it will be used
The right to opt out of data collection or sharing
The right to be told if a website has data on you, and what that data is
The right to be forgotten; to have all data related to you deleted upon request
The right to be informed if ownership of your data changes hands
The right to be informed of any data breaches that include your information in a timely manner
The right to download all data in a standardized format to port to another platform
Consent should be informed and active – companies are responsible for ensuring that they collect a positive opt-in from each user before collecting any data, and this opt-in should be accompanied by a clear and easy-to-understand statement about what data is being collected, and how it is going to be used. You can waive these rights and opt in to sharing your data if you wish for the companies’ benefit and your own convenience – but then you should receive a share of the economic value generated from your data.
As President I Will…
Use a VAT on digital advertisements and data use to ensure every person whose data is used for tech companies to sell ads and sustain their business model will get a slice of every digital ad.
Establish a Digital Bill of Rights that clearly outlines how data is allowed to be collected and used.
Allow individuals to port their personal data to and from platforms of their choosing.
Mandate that platforms offer users the option to delete customer data after using it.
Mandate that all platforms have the option to use their service without collecting data or personal information on the user.
 
2. Minimize health impacts of modern tech on our people, especially our children
We are beginning to understand exactly how much of an adverse effect some of these new technologies are having on the well-being of society, especially on our children.
There are serious concerns about their effects on our kids’ brains, socio-emotional states, and cognitive and physical development at a time when 22% of young children, 60% of tweens, and 84% of teenagers currently use a smartphone and social media apps.8
Without real accountability, platforms like Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram are ignoring the negative impact of their services on our children. As the father of two young boys, I worry about what this will mean for the generations growing up with these technologies. Our kids have access from infancy. They’re getting glued on apps and devices that are functioning as dopamine slot machines.
I look back at my childhood and I remember riding a bike around the neighborhood, but now tablets, computers, and mobile devices have shifted the attention of youth. Today, more than half of children aged 8-12 have their own tablet and a quarter of them have their own smartphone.9
The effects are worrying. There has been an unprecedented surge in depression,10 anxiety, and suicide, and a marked decrease in sociability. Teenagers are spending more time worrying about whether their online acquaintances like their recent post than spending time with their friends in person and developing social skills. The average teenager spends Friday nights at home, interacting with a machine, instead of being out with friends.
Even the content for children on these platforms isn’t subject to any rules and standards the way they are on TV. This lack of regulation means that our children are exposed to extreme and inappropriate content at younger and younger ages.
It’s also causing other risks to health. Studies have found adverse associations between screen time and sleep deprivation.11 Extended screen time has also been linked with obesity in children. The health of our kids, and potentially of generations after, are at risk. We must take action.
Those who have worked within the industry describe the work they’ve done in stark terms. They say that the smartest minds of a generation are spending their time getting teenagers to click on ads and obsess over social media posts.
In short, many experts are worrying that the widespread adoption of a poorly understood technology has caused mental health and developmental problems for an entire generation. We can’t just accept that our kids aren’t all right—we need to do something about it.
As President I will…
Create a Department of the Attention Economy that focuses specifically on how to responsibly design and use smartphones, social media, gaming, and chat apps. It will include overall guidelines, as well as age-based ones.
Provide guidance (and regulation, if needed) on design features that maximize screen time for young people, like removing autoplay video for children under 16, removing the queues that allow infinite scrolling, capping the number of recommendations per day, reducing notification signs and “like” counts, and using artificial intelligence and machine learning to determine when children are using devices to cap screen hours per day.
Establish rules and standards around kid-targeted content to protect them from extreme or inappropriate content.
Incentivize content production of high-quality and positive kids programming similar to broadcast TV.
Require platforms to provide guidance on kid-healthy content for parents, and provide incentives for companies that work to make user data of minors available to their parents.
Include classes on the responsible use of technology in public school curricula and teach children how to distinguish reliable from unreliable news sources online.
 
3. Stop the spread of disinformation
Social media platforms have catalyzed mass disinformation campaigns over the past decade, threatening not just our wellbeing but our democracy. Despite efforts by the tech companies themselves to combat internet disinformation, political disinformation campaigns have reached over 70 countries. Facebook has become the number one social network for disinformation.12
Algorithms driving recommendations towards conspiracy theory content or other types of disinformation need to be reined in. Same goes for bots, which have exacerbated the situation.
We must address once and for all the publisher vs. platform grey area that tech companies have lived in for years. Facebook, Twitter, and other social media sites are using algorithms to make recommendations. These recommendations drive the majority of traffic, up to 70% for Google owned YouTube.13
Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act14 absolves platforms from all responsibility for any content published on them. However, given the role of recommendation algorithms—which push negative, polarizing, and false content to maximize engagement—there needs to be some accountability. 
As President I will…
Amend the Communications Decency Act to reflect the reality of the 21st century— that large tech companies are using tools to act as publishers without any of the responsibility.
Assist companies in detecting bots and penalize them if they don’t meet minimum effectiveness thresholds at regulating the spread of information, especially from foreign actors.
Work with companies to create algorithms that minimize the spread of mis/disinformation, and information that’s specifically designed to polarize or incite individuals.
Require algorithms on platforms that allow political advertisements or the sharing of news stories to be open source, or confidentially disclosed to the Department of the Attention Economy.
Require large, clear labeling on all advertisements shown on an online platform. 
Require the publication in a conspicuous location of how purchases and data is being used to target the individual with other advertisements.
Place a higher VAT on digital advertisements in order to incentivize companies to shift to an ad-free, subscription model.
Include classes on the responsible use of technology in public school curricula and teach children how to distinguish reliable from unreliable news sources online.
 
4. A modern approach to antitrust and regulation requires a 21st century framework
In order to regulate technology effectively, our government needs to understand it. It’s embarrassing to see the ignorance some members of Congress display when talking about technology, and anyone who watched Congress question Mark Zuckerberg is well aware of this. Without a base level of understanding, it’s unreasonable to expect proper regulation of major tech companies, or the drafting of legislation that addresses the critical technological issues that we’ll continue to face in artificial intelligence and cybersecurity. 
Yet, the Office of Technology Assessment (OTA), which provided valuable research and briefings to inform our legislative branch, was phased out in 1995.15 
Free of the bias of private industry or think tanks, the OTA provided neutral information on the latest technological developments to legislators. Many of these reports, despite being a quarter of a century old, show an amazing prescience on topics that are still relevant to this day. This vital institution needs to be revived, with a budget large enough and rules flexible enough to draw top talent away from the very lucrative private sector, and with the mandate to ensure that our legislators are up to the task of regulating the biggest technological issues of our time.
Additionally, it’s high time we created a Department of Technology at the Cabinet level. Technological innovation shouldn’t be stopped, but it should be monitored and analyzed to make sure we don’t move past a point of no return. This will require cooperation between government and private industry to ensure that developing technologies can continue to improve our lives while keeping our data safe and ensuring our autonomy. 
This Department, based in Silicon Valley and initially focused on Artificial Intelligence, will be led by a Secretary of Technology who will spearhead public-private partnerships to tackle emerging threats and maximize the benefit of technological innovation to society. 
Once the government is up to speed on technology, and measures have been implemented to curb the negative effects on society, we must ensure that control over the most powerful technologies in history don’t accrue in the hands of a few. However, we must recognize that 20th century frameworks of breaking up companies just based on size or pricing impact on consumers won’t be effective. Network effects will always ensue, as a dominant player invariably emerges. And no one wants to use the fourth best search engine. 
There are certainly times when parts of a tech company should be divested based on traditional metrics, but other metrics beyond size and consumer impact—such as data assets, vertical integration, or lack of new business formation—should be considered as well.
Determining monopoly power requires us to make clear distinctions on market player vs. market platform. If Amazon is the marketplace, it shouldn’t be competing as a market player, as well. It’s difficult for Amazon or Apple to guarantee credibility to other market actors that they won’t take advantage of their access to information and their ability to shape the market conditions. Consolidation of data assets, shutting down competition (even if it won’t affect prices), and the lack of competitive business formation should all be considered when determining whether the government needs to take action against a business.
Finally, government needs to be forward-thinking and informed on the latest technological developments, so that new regulations can keep up with innovation. We shouldn’t stifle innovation, but we also shouldn’t let it outpace our ability to regulate it.
Two recent examples that highlight the problems: cryptocurrencies, and video game loot boxes. Both are areas that many legislators are blind to, or completely unprepared to understand the technical aspects of. This is creating an unregulated marketplace in both areas. The lack of regulation is having disparate impacts:
Cryptocurrencies are seeing levels of fraud because of the lack of regulation. Other countries, which are ahead of us on regulation, are leading in this new marketplace and dictating the rules that we’ll need to follow once we catch up.
Loot boxes are impacting our children, causing them to spend more time and money on these video games, without many parents being aware of their existence.
Cryptocurrencies and digital assets have quickly grown to represent a large amount of value and economic activity, outstripping government’s response. A national framework for regulating these assets has failed to emerge, with several federal agencies claiming conflicting jurisdictions. 
Currently, different departments of the federal government consider digital assets as property, commodities, or securities. Some states have onerous regulations in the space, such as New York’s BitLicense. Navigating this has had a chilling effect on the US digital asset market.
Separately, loot boxes are a mechanism in games where digital items can be purchased to add to the experience, but they’re done in a “blind” manner—you don’t know what you’re receiving until after you pay for it. These mechanisms can seem similar to gambling because of the random outcome, keeping players (usually kids) engaged on the platform for longer or costing them hundreds or thousands of dollars in addition to the base cost of the game. Some games have a “free-to-play” model, where the game itself is free but they’re funded by the purchase of these loot boxes.
Regulation that requires online game publishers to increase transparency of draw probability for virtual items, and limitations on number of loot box purchases, would be a start. We also need increased parental control for these items so that children don’t end up responsible for large charges.
In short, our government’s knowledge of technology and ability to regulate it and the market is being outpaced by innovation. We need a new generation of leadership that understands these new and emerging technologies so that proper frameworks can be developed to protect consumers and ensure innovation and competition.
As President I will…
Revive the Office of Technology Assessment and establish a Department of Technology.
Set new standards and metrics for antitrust, including size of data assets and lack of business formation.
Require platforms that are market players and market platforms to maintain an even playing field for competitor products or services on their platforms, or exit the market.
Promote legislation that provides clarity on cryptocurrency/digital asset market space by:
Defining what a token is, and when it is a security
Defining which federal agencies have regulatory power over crypto/digital assets space
Provide for consumer protections
Clarify the tax implications of owning, selling, and trading digital assets
Promote the nationwide adoption of recognition of protections afforded by a series LLC
Preempt state regulations, when possible, to create one national framework
Regulate mechanisms in video games that allow people to “gamble” on random items that are purchased with real money to prevent over-purchasing by minors and to increase transparency in what is being received and the value of it.
Ensure that “free-to-play” games marketed to minors do not rely on exploiting child psychology for profit, and guarantee that every in-game purchase is approved by an adult.
It’s right to embrace technology and all the conveniences and advantages that come with its advancement, but we can’t do it at the cost of our humanity. At the core of our technology use, needs to be our well-being and that of future generations. We owe it to ourselves to pursue a new way forward in this technology-driven era, while we still can. 
Gun violence is a scourge in this country. Nearly 40,000 Americans die every year to gun violence: 24,000 from suicide and 15,000 from homicide. After the tragedies in El Paso and Dayton, there have been 255 mass shootings in 2019 – more than days have passed in the year. Our children are twice as likely to die from gun violence than cancer.
We’re losing too many Americans to gun violence. We’re failing our people. We’re failing our children.
We’re also largely alone in this. We have a number of guns per capita at least twice as high as the next highest country, and three times the one after that. We have the highest per capita gun suicide rate, and some sources have us in the top ten for total gun deaths per capita. And mass shootings are significantly more common in the United States
Gun violence is a symptom of many underlying diseases. As a people, we need to come together, recognize all causes of gun violence, and implement policies that will combat this scourge.
I’m a parent of two young boys. I want to look them in their eyes every day when they walk out our front door and be able to tell them that they’re safe.
-Andrew Yang
Improving our Political Rhetoric
The language that our leaders use matters. When our leaders use violent messaging, it increases the likelihood that their supporters will take violent action.
President Trump has been vilifying and scapegoating immigrants. He’s been running ads that call the situation at the southern border a migrant “invasion.” Telling people to go back where they came from, calling other countries “sh*tholes”, and joking about shooting migrants as they approach the border are all dehumanizing and incitements to violence.
With modern communication channels, messages travel wide and fast. Trump may not specifically incite anyone to a violent act, but continually dehumanizing other people and using violent imagery and jokes will result in some people who have a preexisting tendency towards violence to take up arms and lash out.
As the leader of the free world, Trump knows his messages carry great weight. He needs to reflect on what he’s doing and realize that what he says can cause these horrific acts to occur. It doesn’t seem that he’s capable of that level of self-reflection.
As President, I will:
Be sure to never use dehumanizing language to describe anyone.
Call out leaders on both sides of the aisle that stoke hate and fear, or use dehumanizing and hateful language against anyone.
Implementing Common Sense Gun Safety Laws
It’s unacceptable that we continue to have exceptionally high levels of gun violence and our government can’t even enact common-sense reforms that have overwhelming popular support. Our children are doing active shooting drills in school, and we’re doing nothing to make them feel safer.
For many Americans, guns are a big part of their culture and identity. That must be respected. However, guns are a major responsibility and thus we need to have common-sense gun safety measures, especially considering that there are already approaching 400 million firearms in the United States. Responsible gun owners should continue to enjoy the right to bear arms, subject to licensing and education requirements that will enhance public safety. But we need to ban the most dangerous weapons that make mass shootings as deadly as they have become.
As President, I will:
Work to pass common sense gun reform laws, including:
A licensing system and waiting periods
Universal background checks and red flag laws
A definition of assault weapons so they can be banned
Ban after-market magazines and feeder devices that increase capacity.
Incentivize gun manufacturers to limit after-market alterations.
Implement and fund a voluntary buyback program, funded with a starting seed of $200 million but increasing based on the success of the program.
Provide tax incentives for gun safety purchases.
This is just a small list of policies we need to implement around gun safety. To see a complete list of Andrew’s proposals, please read his entire Gun Safety policy here.
Ending the Influence of Lobbyists
90% of Americans support background checks. 85% support a red flag law.
There are plenty of common sense gun safety laws out there with widespread public support. Why hasn’t Congress been able to get them passed?
Lobbyists.
Organizations like the NRA have spent over a hundred million dollars over the past decade, lobbying against any and all gun safety legislation. They’ve spent tens of millions in a single year lobbying legislators to fight against even constitutional, popular gun safety legislation.
All the while, they’ve been preventing the confirmation of any judge that would allow gun control legislation to be ruled unconstitutional. Our federal judiciary has been transformed over the past few years to the point where it will be difficult to overcome judicial activism in expanding the radical and expansive interpretation of the 2nd Amendment that has only recently taken hold after decades of lobbying by the NRA.
We need to get this money out of politics if we want to have any chance of ending the gun violence epidemic plaguing this country.
As President, I will:
Ban anyone who serves in my administration from lobbying for a period of time after they leave their position.
Refuse to hire anyone who formerly worked as a lobbyist for any gun rights or gun manufacturing organization in my Administration.
Work with Congress to pass limitations on lobbying after leaving Congress.
Pass a Democracy Dollars bill, putting over $20b directly in the hands of the American people to support politicians they agree with and drown out the influence of lobbyists.
Pass a Term Limits bill to make it harder for lobbyists to develop long-standing relationships with Congress Members that prevent new ideas or legislation from passing.
Consider ways to alter the makeup of the Supreme Court if they refuse to allow common sense gun legislation to be enacted, including implementing term limits.
Fighting the Rise of White Nationalism and Extremism
White nationalist terrorism has accounted for over 70% of terrorism-related deaths in the US over the past decade. Some organizations have stated that the number of white nationalist perpetrators of terrorist attacks has quadrupled since 2016. There is widespread agreement between law enforcement officials, both in the US and throughout Europe, that white nationalist and far-right terrorism are on the rise. Law enforcement agencies in the United States have had an increasing number of interactions with these groups, resulting in the deaths of dozens of brave men and women over the past several decades.
These violent acts represent only a small subset of this toxic ideology. Some polls have found almost 10% of Americans believe it’s acceptable to hold neo-Nazi beliefs. According to the Anti-Defamation League, both the volume of propaganda being spread by white nationalist groups and the number of public demonstrations have increased over the past several years. Some experts have pegged the number of white nationalists active in the community in the hundreds of thousands.
And they’re blending in better – having traded in their “boots for suits,” there has been a concerted effort by these white nationalist groups to improve their image, seem more respectable, get degrees, and work in law enforcement, media, and other places where they can spread their hateful ideologies to a wider audience.
We need to confront this threat head-on. In order to tackle the massive problems we face – climate change, economic displacement, growing authoritarianism across the globe – all Americans must be united. There’s no room for hateful and extremist ideologies in this country. It’s time that we get serious about confronting this threat.
As President, I will:
Call out white nationalism wherever it arises.
Establish a centralized location to aggregate statistics on white nationalism and domestic terrorism, possibly through an expansion of the FBI’s UCR.
Direct the Department of Justice to prepare and publicly release an Annual Report on Domestic Terrorism, in order to ensure all Americans are properly informed on this issue.
Help victims of domestic terrorism:
Pass a Medicare for All system that fully covers mental health and trauma services for victims of domestic terrorism.
Maintain an opt-in database of victim’s support groups that’s publicly accessible.
Expand the Victim Services Division of the FBI to better serve individuals affected by these crimes.
Establish a victim’s fund to help victim’s of this violence recover.
Instruct the Department of Justice, and the FBI in particular, to treat white nationalism and domestic terrorism as a central focus.
Increase the budget for fighting domestic terrorism to match non-military spending on fighting foreign terrorism.
Work with Congress to pass a federal statute creating a clear federal domestic terrorism offense, and provide for appropriately harsh punishment.
Work with allies abroad to combat the rise of white nationalism
End relationships with white nationalist political parties when possible; minimize contact and refuse to provide/sell any type of materials that could be used to further white nationalist goals to parties when ties can’t be cut completely.
Fight the Spread of Hateful Ideas
The internet and social media have made it much easier to spread hateful ideas and ideologies. Dark corners of the web like 4chan and 8chan regularly see vile ideas shared and laughed at, and mass shooters will frequently post their manifestos to these sites. They also see commentary that cheers the shooters along and encourages others to commit violence. Social media services also see violent videos shared, such as when the New Zealand mass murder was streamed on Facebook.
We need to be very careful not to infringe on the First Amendment rights of individuals, but we also need to work to minimize the spread of incitements to violence on social media channels and websites.
The government should work with social media companies to combat the spread of violent rhetoric online, especially those that depict actual incidences of violence or call for specific acts of violence.
We also need to do more to get people out of their online bubbles and into local communities. We should investigate the impact of social media on our children and come up with guidelines on how much exposure is acceptable. All high school seniors should spend time traveling to a different part of the country to get exposed to different cultures.
As President, I will:
Work with social media and hosting companies to minimize the spread of incitements to violence, while respecting First Amendment rights.
Implement the American Exchange Program to allow all high school students to experience different areas of the country and form friendships with a diverse group of Americans.
Reforming Individuals Trying to Leave Hate
We must absolutely and unequivocally condemn white nationalism as an ideology. We must absolutely and unequivocally condemn any violence done in furtherance of this ideology. We must harshly punish anyone who commits a crime in order to accomplish the goals of this ideology. A single life lost as a result of domestic terrorism is too many.
The only way we can possibly minimize the loss of life due to white nationalism-inspired domestic terrorism is to provide a way for those who are entrenched in this hateful world to leave, if they desire.
Non-profit organizations are much better equipped to do the work of reaching out to individuals who are trying to leave the white nationalist community. Life After Hate and Free Radicals are two such groups. I spoke with Christian Picciolini about the work he’s done on this front and the successes he’s had. We need to expand the work done by individuals like him.
Finally, we need to ensure that prisons have the resources necessary to combat white nationalist gangs, and provide services to individuals who are looking to leave these organizations and, upon release, rebuild their lives outside of the white nationalist community.
As President, I will:
Invest millions in nonprofits such as Life After Hate and Free Radicals that help individuals disengage from white nationalist groups.
Provide ancillary services when necessary to help individuals disengage from white nationalist groups, such as tattoo removal through the Medicare for All system.
Ensure that all federal prisons have the resources necessary to help incarcerated individuals leave white nationalist groups when they desire.
Strengthen American Families and School Systems
We need to do a better job in creating a system where all American children are set up to succeed. This involves strengthening families and our education system.
When I talked with Christian Picciolini, he noted that children – usually young boys – who suffer traumatic “potholes” are significantly more likely to search for a community and be targeted by white nationalist groups. Trauma, abandonment, and loss have all been cited as primary drivers in turning people towards white nationalism. We need to intervene so that these children can deal with their trauma and become contributing members of our society.
We can help parents stay together by providing tax credits for anyone who wishes to go to marriage counseling, and provide resources for single parents who often struggle to both work and raise their children. We need to implement a paid family leave policy so that families have more time to bond. 
We can also improve our school system. First, we can expand it to provide affordable childcare and early childhood education/universal pre-K for all students, to improve educational outcomes and socialization. Second, we can ensure that every school has staff trained to identify children in crisis, so that the issues they’re dealing with can be identified. Finally, schools should be encouraged, through grants, to investigate alternative disciplinary plans that focus on positively reinforcing good behavior instead of punishing bad behavior. These programs have shown great promise in many schools that have implemented them.
As President, I will:
Provide a tax credit that covers marriage counseling for every couple that wants it.
Increase assistance to single parents.
Implement a paid family leave policy to ensure that all new parents have time to spend with their children.
Expand our education system to provide daycare and early childhood education for all.
Ensure all schools receive training on identifying children who are in crisis and providing them with assistance.
Provide grants to school districts with alternative, rehabilitative disciplinary plans.
We need to help keep Americans safe from gun violence and white nationalism, domestic terrorism, and all forms of extremism. 
Let’s come together to address this challenge.
Somewhere between 7 and 8% of the US population has served in the military. These brave individuals took on the sacred duty of protecting our democracy and making the world a safer place. The debt we owe to everyone who took on this responsibility – especially those who sacrificed their lives – cannot be repaid.
But we must try. And we must do much better than we’re doing now.
There are many issues unique to the veteran community that we need to address. The transition to civilian life should be smoother, and we need to put more support structures in place. Public misconceptions have lead to issues with employment. Homelessness is a perennial problem, and the VA – especially the Veterans Health Administration – can do much more to improve the well-being of those who have served.
These heroes protect and serve us during their tenure, but they come home to a quick thank you and an economy that isn’t set up to help them succeed. We owe them more than a handshake.
-Andrew Yang
 
More Than A Handshake: My Plan to Better Serve Our Veterans
 
Returning Heroes Initiative
Our service members live a life much different than the rest of us during their service. This experience can make the transition to civilian life difficult. All members of the military should receive training as they end their service that makes this transition as smooth as possible.
Reverse Boot Camp
When starting their service, members of the armed forces go through a boot camp in order to ensure that they’re ready for the rigors of service. As they end their service, they should go through an equally important training program on elements of civilian life that would not be second-nature to someone who has had a regimented routine over the past several years.
The reverse boot camp would ensure that all veterans are aware of the general “timeline” of issues they’ll face. Recent veterans face different challenges than those who have been out of the armed services for a longer time period. For example, immediately after their discharge from the military, veterans often face issues with adjusting to a self-directed schedule and finding a new career, issues which are resolved over time.
This reverse boot camp would teach valuable skills required of civilian adults, such as:
Grocery shopping and nutrition, cooking, and creating and sticking to a personal schedule (without the regimented schedule enforced by the military)
Financial literacy and training, such as creating and sticking to a personal budget, personal banking, retirement saving, and paying bills
On top of the financial literacy training, there also needs to be laws put in place so that veterans are protected from payday lenders and other predatory businesses. This would involve creating zones around bases where these businesses couldn’t operate, lending institutions specifically for veterans that could provide financial assistance if needed coupled with more financial literacy training, and financial assistance for veterans who are having difficulty paying off predatory loans.
It would also ensure that all veterans are aware of the myriad programs available to them, including employment, health, and other support services.
Additionally, it would involve a lot of information and training on finding a new career outside of the military, including:
Setting salary expectations for the private sector, based on field and qualifications
Translating military skills to civilian skills
Creating a resume and finding job opportunities
Interviewing
This Reverse Boot Camp would involve a number of group classes and individual consultations with experts in the military, veterans, and private-sector experts in order to ensure that all veterans are equipped to successfully transition to civilian life.
(Note: See the mentorship program in the Employment section, below)
GI Bill/Education Improvements
The GI Bill is one of our best ways to thank the brave individuals who serve this country. While this benefit program provides flexibility and training to our veterans as they transition to civilian life, there are ways that it can be improved to make this transition easier.
The application and payment system needs to be modernized and streamlined so that our veterans don’t need to jump through additional hoops in order to use their GI Bill. Approvals should be on entire courses of study instead of on a semester-by-semester basis, thus making it easier and less stressful to continue at an institution.
The qualified courses of study should also be expanded to allow for more varied career pursuits after service, while also providing protections for our veterans from for-profit institutions that wouldn’t provide a significant chance of employment after graduation, certification, or completion of the course. Any institution that receives tuition through this program should be required to report on employment numbers and be held accountable if they’re not meeting certain standards.
Military service provides protection to all 50 states. As such, all veterans should receive in-state tuition automatically from any public institution, regardless of how long they’ve held residency, and without any restrictions.
Schools should also be pushed to give unlimited course credit for equivalent courses from military training, especially for all service members who received additional training in specialized fields. The VA should work with all schools to create an “Equivalent Courses” list so it’s easy for veterans to figure out what they’re qualified to receive credit for.
All schools should also have clear and flexible policies for enrollment and withdrawal for veterans and active servicemembers. These policies should include:
Early enrollment periods, as well as late enrollment periods without penalty or fee
Rules on what proportion of an individual class’s coursework must be completed, and to what standard, for credit to be issued, in case of a call to active duty (recommended: 85% of work completed with a passing grade)
Tuition refunds in case coursework is interrupted because of a call to active duty
Military Training: The Gold Standard
In short, if someone is qualified to do a job in the military, they should be qualified to do that job in the US.
Too many of our veterans have been trained to a high level in skills that aren’t respected when they get back home. These veterans often need to spend thousands of dollars and a significant amount of time receiving a certification to do a job that they’ve been doing throughout their service.
It’s an impediment to veteran employment, it disrespects the work done in the military, and, quite frankly, it’s wasteful.
We need to work with state licensing boards, and other organizations that are involved in certifications, to ensure that those who are trained by the military can seamlessly transition to a job in the civilian economy that they are qualified for. CDLs and EMT certifications, as well as paramedic and nurse, and other jobs that require certification, should all see a much easier transition from practicing them in the military and being employed in that job outside of service.
Employment and Veteran Businesses
Working to ensure that licensing and certification standards transfer between military and civilian jobs is just a start to ensuring that we do everything we can to help veterans find and maintain employment. But there’s a lot more we need to do.
I have met with several veteran groups and one vet told me something profound. “It’s not that employers just aren’t pro-veteran. They are actually looking for reasons to say no and rule you out because they think you’re damaged goods.”
There’s a general belief among Americans that most veterans suffer from a mental health issue, despite that number being much, much smaller. The first thing we need to do is better inform the American people and, in particular, employers on this reality to combat this prejudice against hiring veterans.
We also need to invest in, and create, mentorship programs for veterans. Non-profits such as American Corporate Partners are doing great work at matching veterans with mentors who can help them find and adapt to a new career. We should invest in other non-profits, and create programs within the federal government, that also help veterans adjust to civilian life. And we should also incentivize businesses to create mentorship programs internally, that provide both a non-veteran and veteran mentor to newly hired veterans. These mentors could help veterans in their careers, and also advocate internally for veteran candidates to be hired.
In order to help veterans find fulfilling and stable careers, the government should research and maintain a database of in-demand skills and professions, and match veterans to these jobs based on their skills. The government can also partner with businesses in these areas to match up qualified candidates, and incentivize businesses to hire veterans. This can take the form of subsidies, both for the hiring itself and also for the investment in helping the veteran transition from their career in the military to their career at this business, since the rigidity, culture, requirements, and networking required can be very different, and a transition/learning window is often required.
Finally, the federal government should provide resources to veteran-run businesses. This can take the form of initial investment, low-cost financing options, and preferential treatment.
 
Veterans Health Initiative
My vision of the future for American healthcare involves covering everyone – even veterans – under a Medicare for All-style program. However, the VA would still have a role in veteran health in this system, transitioning to a focus on veteran-specific issues (prosthetics, chronic ailments related to battlefield injury, mental health and PTSD) and maintaining expertise in these areas.
Until that transition, there are still many ways we can improve treatment for our veterans, starting with easing the transition from TRICARE to the VA system through improved administration and enrollment.
Once in that system, we need to focus on increasing options and improving access, especially in rural areas, without succumbing to calls to privatize the program.
Improving Health, Increasing Options
The first thing we need to recognize is that providing for the health of our veterans is a moral imperative, and we need to fully fund a system that works to maximize veteran health.
In addition to funding the operations of veteran healthcare, we need to ensure that we’re creating a budget that allows for proper research into issues that affect the veteran community in particular. Suicide prevention and PTSD/TBI treatment, long-term effects of battlefield-related injuries, exposure to substances unique to combat environments, and similar areas should be researched to find the optimal treatments, and the VA (in partnership with the CDC) is best equipped to do so.
Staffing needs to be improved. Salaries and benefits should be increased in order to fully staff and maintain best-in-class doctors and administrative staff. Clear metrics for success in each role should be established, and individuals who are not measuring up need to be let go. There also needs to be a push to hire doctors who specialize in treatment of women’s issues, including sexual trauma, and issues facing our transgender veterans, as well as expanding options for these veterans to receive treatment outside of the VA system if they so choose.
On a similar note, we should investigate ways to improve and expand the Choice Act to lower wait times and expand access and increase the efficacy of our electronic records database to make it easier for veterans to find healthcare where they are.
Substance abuse treatment should be expanded, with more available treatment centers and long-term support, as helping with addiction issues will reduce many other issues for veterans (homelessness, unemployment, suicide). The same should be true for general mental health care.
In order to improve access and efficiency, many more GP centers should be opened, especially in rural areas, so that no veteran needs to travel a significant distance to see a doctor (the Choice Act can help with this, as well). If a veteran needs to travel to a specialized treatment center, transportation should be provided or subsidized.
Controlled Substance Exceptions
The scientific evidence that certain controlled substances – particularly marijuana – are particularly effective at treating certain ailments common to veterans (e.g., PTSD) and for pain management.
While I’m in favor of legalizing marijuana at the federal level, if that takes time, we need to provide waivers for veterans so they can receive this treatment, as well as prescribe it through the VA. This includes waivers and prescriptions for veterans residing in states that currently don’t allow for personal use or medical exceptions for marijuana use.
We should also fund research into other controlled substances that have been shown to hold promise for treating PTSD and other diseases, and provide similar waivers and prescriptions should these other substances prove efficacious.
We owe it to our veterans to do everything possible to help them manage any health issues they have.
Ending Veteran Suicide
22 veterans commit suicide every day. That number is 22 too high, and I commit to decreasing it at least by half by the end of my first term as President.
Providing all other services to increase the stability veterans feel, and ensuring a successful transition to civilian life, should help decrease veteran suicide. But there’s more we can do to combat this scourge.
Treatment doesn’t work if its not sought out. 80% of veterans cite embarrassment or shame as a barrier to asking for mental health treatment. We need to combat this by destigmatizing veteran treatment. It can start with an initiative to identify high-ranking veterans who received mental health treatment to speak to these issues publicly, and it can continue with information provided during the Reverse Boot Camp.
We also need to increase the funding and reach of crisis lines to ensure that any veteran has immediate access to individuals who can direct them to mental health services, or to a mental health professional who can provide immediate counseling and treatment.
Finally, as gun suicide disproportionately affects veterans, we should provide free gun safes/storage for all veterans, which has been shown to significantly reduce suicide risk.
 
Every Vet Under a Roof Initiative
Homelessness disproportionately affects veterans. This is unacceptable, and I commit to decreasing it substantially during my first term as President.
It’s important to note that there are differences in chronic and situational veteran homelessness. Improving stability and employment will help primarily with situational homelessness, while chronic homelessness is usually related to health/mental health issues.
Helping with their transition to civilian life and increasing employment and stability is a huge step in decreasing the number of situationally homeless veterans. Improving mental health resources and treatment is a huge step in combating chronic homelessness.
In order to directly tackle this issue, however, we need to start by establishing a census-like team that will research and find all of our homeless veterans and get them and their information into the VA system. This will allow the health professionals to treat any mental or physical health issues that are contributing to the homelessness, as well as enroll them in other programs to help with employment, financial literacy, and general life skills.
We also need to help veterans afford housing through financial literacy, assistance in saving up for a down payment or security deposit (including by instituting programs while they’re still in active service, to dedicate portions of their pay specifically to retirement and post-discharge housing), mortgage options, and, if it comes to it, assistance in foreclosure proceedings (including incentives for mortgage companies to find alternatives to foreclosures).
We can also do more to increase the availability of affordable housing options. A great example of this is the Tiny Houses project by the Veterans Community Project. Non-profits and the government can work together to innovate in this space and ensure that no veteran falls through the cracks.
Voting is a pillar of our democracy that has helped keep our government accountable for hundreds of years. As generations of activists fought and died to protect and expand the right to vote, we won ourselves a more inclusive and representative government. We all know about Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s marches in Washington D.C. and Selma, Alabama during the civil rights movement, and we all learn about the suffragettes and the 19th Amendment in school. Yet, today in the 21st century, voter access remains a challenge in our democracy. Because, while all Americans have the right to vote, the reality is that many are consistently prevented from doing so. This must change. 
To preserve our national values and ensure our government functions properly, we must fight to guarantee that every American has not only the right to vote, but the resources to exercise those rights.
What we measure matters. If we’re only getting input from those who are able to vote, we’re ignoring the needs of the over one hundred million Americans who didn’t make it to the ballot box. To build a better democracy, we need reform.
If you don’t believe that we need voting reform, just look at our most recent presidential election. In 2016, only 55% of eligible voters cast their ballots. That puts America, a model of modern democracy, behind almost every European country, as well as Mexico, South Korea, Israel, Canada, and Australia when it comes to voter participation. To me, this is a national embarrassment. America is the leader of the free world, and our elections should reflect that. If we want a truly representative democracy, we need true access to the ballot box.
My plan to help every single American vote will dramatically increase voter turnout and create a more functional and representative democracy. It will allow America to point to its elections as a model for the democratic process that aligns with the values we are bound to fight for at home and overseas.
My approach is 4-pronged:
The myth of voter fraud can make it more difficult for millions of Americans to participate in the voting process and exacerbates voter suppression. Combating voter suppression requires limiting voter roll purges, prohibiting voter ID laws, limiting last minute changes to polling locations, implementing automatic and same-day voter registration, accepting mail-in ballots, requiring early voting, and counting all provisional ballots.
We need to expand the electorate and ensure access to the ballot box for every American. We will protect the integrity of our democratic process through the elimination of discriminatory laws and initiatives to increase voter participation across the board. 
America’s confidence in the value of a vote is dependent on trust in our institutions and the security of the infrastructure that make our elections possible. It is imperative that there is adequate funding directed to election security and the ongoing research necessary to keep our elections fair and free. 
Every American should know that their vote matters. We must ensure that every American realizes the power of their vote and implement policies to change attitudes around voting, including ranked-choice voting, Democracy Dollars, and ending partisan gerrymandering. 
 
1. Combatting Voter Suppression
Voter suppression policies like voter ID laws, voter roll purges, limited polling locations, and onerous signature matching requirements are typically justified as a way to combat voter fraud. Here’s the problem: voter fraud is practically nonexistent. An American is more likely to get struck by lightning than commit voter fraud.1 99.9% of “voter fraud” cases investigated turn out to be administrative or clerical errors.
This voter discrimination cannot be tolerated. The federal government needs to set nationwide standards for our federal elections to ensure that no eligible voter is prevented from voting. The following initiatives are targeted at combating specific voter suppression practices enacted in both federal and state elections across the country.
Amend the Voting Rights Act
The historic achievement of the Voting Rights Act (VRA) in 1965 made it possible for millions of Americans to vote for the first time, disabling a variety of discriminatory laws. Unfortunately, in Shelby County v. Holder (2013), the Supreme Court overturned a single section of the VRA. The absence of this section reduced federal oversight, allowing 846 jurisdictions to change their state voting laws and close or move local polling places in a discriminatory way.2 Poll closures make it challenging for low-income voters to cast their ballots. 
We first need to amend the Voting Rights Act Section 4(b) to require states to receive permission from the Department of Justice before changing certain voting laws, and then I would direct the Department of Justice to bring suits against restrictive laws.
As President, I will…
Work with Congress to amend the Voting Rights Act to require states to receive permission from the Department of Justice (DOJ) before changing certain voting laws or polling locations.
Limit Voter Roll Purges
Voter purging disenfranchises legitimate voters and can create confusion and delays in the voting process. Purging has increased by 33% over the last decade, mainly in counties with an established voting discrimination history. In 2015, Alabama alone purged 16% of it’s nearly 4 million registered voters.3 We need to take steps that ensure that every eligible American vote can cast their ballot on Election Day. 
As President, I will…
Regulate voter roll purges that disenfranchise legitimate voters and delay the election process. Regulations will require states to:
Notify the public before conducting voter roll purges.
Notify voters who have been purged in a timely manner so they can correct the error before the next election.
Establish procedures that allow wrongly removed voters to vote on Election Day.
Automatic and Same-Day Voter Registration
All U.S. citizens should be allowed to vote, not just the ones who jump through the various hoops required by their state. The modernization of voter registration can help the 50 million eligible American voters who aren’t registered to become more easily involved.4
Automatic voter registration utilizes existing government entities to gather reliable information about eligible citizens automatically registers them to vote. This system creates an infrastructure for increased accuracy of voting records and establishes an electronic system that is cheaper and easier to update. Not only does it make the voting process more convenient for voters, it has shown to increase voter registration rates by over 60%.5
Same-day registration is another form of modernized voter registration that enables eligible citizens to submit their ballots with more ease. 21 states have enacted same-day registration,6 which allows any qualified resident of the state to go to register to vote and cast a ballot all on the same day. States that have implemented this option have seen a 3% to 7% increase in voter turnout.7
In order to improve voter participation, we have to ensure that we provide every eligible American access to a convenient and secure way to register to vote.
As President, I will…
Work with Congress to set automatic voter registration requirements for federal elections.
Require all federal elections to offer opportunities for same-day voter registration.
Provide funding to states to update their voter enrollment systems to electronic ones, and to integrate with federal systems, as well as each other, to ensure up-to-date voter information and easy transfer of data.
Prohibit Voter ID Laws
Strict voter identification requirements across the country are depriving many voters of their right to vote. Of course, the lawmakers who write these laws and voters who use their identification in their everyday lives don’t think this is a big deal. However, low-income households, the elderly, transgender individuals, minorities, and people with disabilities (PWD) are more likely to be disenfranchised by these laws because they are more likely to experience difficulty obtaining the underlying documents necessary. 3.6% of registered white voters lacked proper ID, compared to 7.5% of black registrants.8 The transgender community is disproportionately affected by these laws. 57% (approximately 78,000) of transgender people may not have identification or documentation that accurately reflects their gender, making them ineligible to vote.9
Processes to change names or gender markers on identification can be expensive, difficult, and vary from state to state. For individuals who do not have traditional identification like a driver’s license or passport, states are legally required to provide a process for them to obtain some form of voter ID. However, states can purposely make it difficult to obtain voter ID by severely limiting the days that their ID offices are open. The most extreme example includes a location in Sauk County, Wisconsin where the office is only open on the fifth Wednesday of every month10 (which equates to four days of the entire year). 
Nationally, 25% of African-American voting-age citizens lack a government-issued photo ID, compared to 8% of White voting-age citizens.(11) The income gap plays major role in explaining this difference. Obtaining a government issued ID can easily cost $75 to $175 in transport fees, waiting times, and paying for supporting papers like birth certificates, which are not as easily accessible to minority communities living in poverty. When states enact voter ID laws, their turnout decreases by 2-3% and primarily affects ages 18-23, new voters, and African-American voters.12
More than three-quarters of older voters between the ages of 65 and 74 are registered to vote, and more than 60% of those aged 85 and above cast a ballot in the 2016 election.13 Despite large voter turnout of the elderly population, who take their civic duty seriously, stringent identification laws are making it more and more difficult for them to participate in the voting process. Whether that means finding transportation to renew their expired driver’s license or scrambling to find a birth certificate that was issued 80 years ago, older voters are also becoming targets of disenfranchisement. 
Identification problems should not bar Americans from voting. We must remove discriminatory voter ID laws that deny thousands of otherwise eligible citizens the opportunity to participate in the democratic process. 
As President, I will…
Through the Voting Rights Act, require states to get permission from the Department of Justice before implementing any voter ID laws.
Direct the DOJ to prohibit all voter ID laws that disenfranchise underrepresented communities.
Early Voting and Vote By Mail
Many Americans are taking time off from work to vote, only to experience absurd lines, understaffed polling stations, and hassles with voter ID requirements. Mail-in ballots and early voting not only help the working-class American, but also those who are unable to make it to a polling station, including but not limited to the ill, physically disabled, or those working poll stations. 
Two-thirds of states now offer some form of early voting,14 giving Americans the ability to cast their ballots at less crowded polling stations and with reduced wait times. This provides significant relief to poll workers and increases voter turnout, especially of underrepresented populations. 
Thirty states have enacted no-excuse absentee voting, which allows citizens to submit their votes by mail at designated polling locations.15 This allows states to save millions of dollars because they don’t need to establish polling places or pay polling staff, and it increases voter turnout of younger, older, poorer, and minority voters. 
However, onerous matching requirements of names or signatures have led to the rejection of thousands of legitimate votes. Legal, financial, and societal barriers do not always make legal name changes easy. These requirements create barriers to people with disabilities, women who have married or divorced, and transgender people. In Florida, over 5,000 vote by mail ballots were rejected for signature requirements.16 In Georgia’s gubernatorial race, hundreds of absentee ballots were rejected without first giving voters a chance to fix the problem because of suspected signature mismatches.17 Young voters are also more likely to have their mail-in ballots rejected because they did not use their handwriting enough to develop a steady signature.18
Early voting and mail-in ballots contribute to the convenience and participation of citizens in the democratic process. We need to extend these opportunities to all Americans and do away with restrictions, like name and signature matching requirements, that work against it. 
As President, I will…
Implement a federal law that requires all states to integrate voting by early voting and mail-in ballots to their voting process.
Require states to eliminate onerous name and signature matching requirements that lead to the rejection of legitimate votes without giving voters the opportunity to fix these issues. 
Polling Locations
Since the U.S. Supreme Court struck down key parts of the Voting Rights Act, polling stations have been vanishing, especially in locations with high populations of minorities. In a city in Alabama, council members eliminated 60% of the polling locations within the nearby African American district, but left open 100% of the polls in the white-majority districts.19 Fewer polling stations substantially decreases voter turnout,20 and drastically increases long lines at the polling stations. In addition, last-minute changes to polling stations force voters to figure out where their new polling stations are and rearrange their transportation plans or schedules accordingly. These abrupt changes limit access to polling stations and deter Americans from showing up.
As President, I will…
Limit last minute changes of polling stations to only situations of true exigent circumstances. 
Provisional Ballots 
Provisional ballots are supposed to act as fail-safe ballots when voters run into problems at the polls, but many of them are not counted. Over 220,000 provisional ballots were discounted in the 2016 presidential primaries. State variation of voter eligibility requirements can determine whether or not 100 or 100,000 provisional ballots are rejected. In the 2016 presidential primaries in Maricopa County, Arizona, 24,630 provisional ballots were rejected because voters were not registered with a political party.21 These ballots are the final votes counted before determining the outcome of an election. Unclear state directives about how to count provisional ballots should not be the cause of the unfair disqualification of thousands of votes.  
As President, I will…
Establish a provisional ballots guideline for all states to follow to ensure all legitimate ballots are accounted for, and that there are the same guidelines in each state. 
 
2. Expanding the Electorate and Ensuring Access to the Ballot Box
It is the government’s job to do everything in its power to expand the electorate and foster participation in the democratic process. We need to not only stop current voter suppression tactics, but we also need to recognize how voting laws might disproportionately impact specific communities. By recognizing these effects, we can enact specific initiatives that ensure participation and expand voting access for all. 
Native American Voting Rights
For decades, our voting system has disenfranchised and discriminated against Native Americans and Alaska Natives. Restrictive laws that require traditional street addresses and voter ID laws that do not accept tribal identification make voting registration difficult for Native Americans. Limited polling sites and resources require that Native Americans travel great distances to vote, sometimes up to 150 miles.22
The federal government can do much more to establish greater support for Native American voting rights. As part of establishing laws to combat voter suppression tactics like voter ID laws and limited polling locations, we need to pass legislation like the Native American Voting Rights Act23 that carves out specific provisions that address Native American and Alaska Native voting issues. These specifics need to include requiring polling stations to be located near reservations, states to accept tribal ID cards for voting purposes, and alternative address options for those who reside on reservations.
As President, I will…
Support passage of the Native American Voting Rights Act to extend greater federal support for Native American and Alaska Native voters.
Require polling stations to be located within 20 miles of reservations.
Require states to provide address registration alternatives for reservation residents. 
Voting for People With Disabilities (PWD)
People with disabilities face basic physical barriers in accessibility to the polls. Simple barriers like stairs can make it so that many voting-eligible people can’t make it to the polls. In the actual voting booth, a lack of assistive technology can make it impossible for some PWD to accurately cast their ballot. Implementing advanced technology would make the voting process more efficient and accessible to people with disabilities. All polling locations need to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and should be vetted for accessibility issues before each election. Vote by mail initiatives can also play a huge role in ensuring PWD have access to casting their vote.
As President, I will…
Provide states with the funds necessary to ensure that all polling locations and voting methods are accessible to PWD. 
Ensure that vote by mail programs specifically target PWD voters.
Restoration of Voting Rights for Felons
6.1 million Americans cannot vote due to a felony conviction and are therefore denied the right to cast their vote in an election. Felony disenfranchisement exacerbates racial disparities. 1 in 13 black Americans have lost their right to vote vs. 1 in 56 white Americans.24 State laws vary wildly as far as re-enfranchisement is concerned, with some never disenfranchising felons, and others permanently disenfranchising them. This patchwork of state laws is inherently unfair, as citizens are treated differently depending on their location.
America’s criminal justice system should be built around the idea of rehabilitation whenever possible – that means during the incarceration period and after. By restoring full voting rights to felons during incarceration, who have not deprived someone else of their right to vote, and ex-felons who have completed the entirety of their sentence, we’ll increase their engagement with society. This will improve their lives drastically, for obvious reasons. It will also make the rest of us safer, as some studies have shown that ex-felons who vote are half as likely to reoffend. By giving these individuals a larger stake in society, we make our entire country stronger.
As President, I will…
Restore voting rights to individuals convicted of felonies and prohibit states from denying ex-felons the right to vote. 
Restore voting rights for current inmates unless they have deprived someone else of their right to vote.
Prioritize all initiatives to expand and restore voting rights in the U.S. to the previously and currently incarcerated.
Lower Voting Age to 16
While the 2018 midterm elections saw the highest turnout in a non-presidential year since 1914, the turnout was still under 50%. Presidential election turnout hovers between 50% and 65%. This is low. While reforms making it easier to vote should be implemented as well, we can also increase civic engagement and regular voting by lowering the voting age.
Studies show that allowing younger people to vote has positive impacts on overall voting habits.25 Localities that have lowered the voting age have seen an increase in voter turnout across all age groups. Other studies have shown that delaying when a person first votes (because of birth dates and election cycles) decreases the likelihood that they will become a regular voter.
At 16, Americans don’t have hourly limits imposed on their work, and they pay taxes. Their livelihoods are directly impacted by legislation, and they should therefore be allowed to vote for their representatives.
Additionally, because of election cycles, there’s a level of unfairness that comes with what year a person is born. Senators are on a 6-year cycle, and the president is on a 4-year cycle, not to mention local offices. Someone born at the wrong time in a cycle would have to wait much longer to cast a ballot for certain offices than someone born at another time. While that’s true if the voting age is lowered to 16, it decreases the age at which the person is first allowed to vote for that office, thus allowing them to have a longer period of their life where they feel represented.
As President, I will…
Lower the voting age for federal elections to 16.
Make Election Day a Holiday
Everyone eligible to vote on election day should be free to do so. However, as highlighted by the disproportionate impact of voter ID laws and inconvenient polling locations, the lower the income that an individual or family has, the greater the barriers they face to voting, resulting in significantly lower turnout.26 Too many Americans are unable to take time off from work, as they’re living paycheck-to-paycheck or are hourly workers who can’t lose the time. 
We should make Election Day a federal holiday on the second Tuesday of every November. Doing so will dramatically increase voter turnout and the voice of the American people in government. 
Establishing the second Tuesday of November every year as a federal holiday will ensure that everyone has the ability to vote in local elections, which often take place outside of the presidential election cycle. 
Let’s listen to the 71% of Democrats and 59% of Republicans27 who already support the idea of celebrating a federal holiday on Election day and give Americans a day off to exercise the most essential duty of democracy.
As President, I will…
Make Election Day a federal holiday on the second Tuesday of every November.
 
3. Election Security
Our citizens must be able to cast their votes without fear that they will be compromised by foreign hackers or lost by bad software. We must recognize that the greatest opportunity to prevent voter misrepresentation lies in updating outdated infrastructure. By freeing states from reliance on decades-old machines that were phased out in other states for poor security and clumsy user interface, we can build a safer, easier voting process.
In the context of voting, user interface is a matter of national importance. Old machines reduce the number of voters who actually finalize their vote, because confusing instructions frustrate them, and voters leave before their vote can be recorded. These machines also lack the critical security measures that protect votes from hacking and manipulation.
We need new investments to make our voting systems secure and usable. This will both ensure that voters are able to exercise their civic duties with ease, and allow them the peace of mind that their vote will not be compromised or lost.
Fund Ballot Box Security
Like the rest of America’s infrastructure, voting is chronically underfunded. This leaves our democracy open to attack. My administration will fund the development and rollout of new, more secure machines that aren’t open to attack.
This threat is not hypothetical. In the recent past, internet-connected machines have been hacked and used to print out fraudulent ballots.28 Additionally, Russia was able to hack into voter databases across the US.29 Ballot security is national security, and we must ensure that Russia and others who wish to do us harm do not have an open door into the machinery of democracy. To prevent successful attacks, new machines should be disconnected from the internet.
Beyond removing our machines from the internet, we will build a system in which every vote leaves a paper trail. Paper backups are critical in cases of hardware failure and guarantee that a vote won’t be lost on account of a software bug. Additionally, paper provides a record of the vote that can’t be hacked or easily altered. Optical scanners that read paper ballots and store them electronically are a great way to combine the security of paper with the ease of technology.
As President, I will…
Increase federal funding toward ballot box security so voting machines cannot be hacked and have a paper trail for mandatory audits.
Give States All the Money they Need
No matter how safe and effective voting machines are, they won’t have any effect unless voters have access to them. Voting security cannot only be practiced by the federal government, it must happen at every level. To connect voters with secure, well-maintained machines and functioning polling stations, the federal government must give states the resources they need to procure and install this technology at every voting station. We must also fund more post-election audits to detect any attempts to interfere in the democratic process.
Despite the $380 million round of grants given to states last year by the federal Elections Assistance Commission,30 states need much more to cover all the costs that voting security demands. For example, to replace all electronic paperless voting machines in Pennsylvania, it is estimated they will need $50.4 to $79.1 million statewide,31 far more than the $13.5 million provided by Congress. My administration will make it clear in Pennsylvania and every other state that money isn’t an obstacle to a secure democracy.
Safe elections require more than responsible machines, they require responsible humans. My administration will work with states and voting staff to guarantee they are trained in best cybersecurity practices, including threat detection and reporting. By bringing together the best that humans and technology have to offer, we can ensure every American has access to a secure ballot box.
As President, I will…
Increase federal funding so all states have the money they need for secure voting machines, maintenance, and staffing polling locations.
Invest in Cybersecurity 
As we focus on the elections of today, we must not fail to prepare for those of tomorrow. The threat of cyber attacks is always growing and evolving, so we must keep up to date on every development to maintain secure election infrastructure.
Looking to the future of voting, we must consider what options we have to make voting more secure and accessible. My administration will research developments in e-voting, including mobile voting. If this technology proves truly secure and viable, its use would dramatically boost voter participation and reduce the costs of local, state and national elections. 
We will also invest in the cyber security apparatus as a whole to not only keep our voting infrastructure safe, but also defend our power grid, defense sector, and government from hackers.
As President, I will…
Invest in cybersecurity research for the future.
Research modern e-voting practices that guarantee security.
 
4. Change Attitudes Around Voting
To change our country’s relationship with voting, we’ll need to do more than just provide access; we’ll need to change attitudes. We can enhance every American’s faith in government by getting them more involved in the process, but first we must build trust.
Americans are rightfully worried that casting a ballot doesn’t matter, because powerful special interests and poorly drawn district lines will minimize their voice. When citizens do vote, they’re hesitant to pick the candidates that actually represent their interests, because they’re “throwing their vote away” on someone who isn’t likely to win. 
To build trust in government, we need to get big money out of politics for good, and allow voters to elect representatives that reflect their values, not the lesser of two evils. Perception is important, and when Americans realize the power they hold in shaping our nation’s future, we will have a country built of political participants instead of political spectators.
Ranked-Choice Voting: Aligning Our Votes with Our Values
Why do we accept a system that leads us to feel that we’re voting for the person who is going to do the least bad instead of the most good? It’s because our all-or-nothing voting system forces us to pick candidates we think can win, regardless of how well they align with our values.
Our system doesn’t just force us to make moral compromises, it makes it almost impossible for 3rd party candidates to run without damaging the campaigns of like-minded parties, and pushes more extreme fringe ideas to the top by minimizing coalition building.
We can do better, and under my administration we will, by implementing ranked-choice voting. Ranked-choice voting allows each voter to rank their top three candidates, from 1 to 3. After this is complete, every voter’s first choice is tallied. If one candidate received over 50% of the vote, they win the election. If no candidate hits the majority threshold, the candidate with the fewest votes is eliminated. Then, everyone who listed that eliminated candidate as their first choice has their second choice considered, a process which continues until someone breaks 50%.
This way of voting has been shown to increase voter turnout, better reflect voter values, encourage moderate politics, and decrease negative campaigning. With ranked-choice voting in place, we will no longer have to vote for the lesser of evils, but for the better of leaders.
As President, I will…
Push the DNC to adopt a ranked-choice voting model for all democratic primaries.
Work with Congress to adopt ranked-choice voting for all federal elections.
Flood Out the Money in Politics
Voters are concerned about money in politics, and they should be. A handful of wealthy individuals can now raise their voices louder than millions of ordinary Americans put together. The flood of money in politics has led to increased mistrust and disenchantment in our government, and rightly so. Big money in politics is far more likely to support candidates who will protect the interest of the wealthy that elected these candidates in the first place.
We can and should apply more regulations to political financing, including repealing Citizens United, but we must also recognize that no matter what we do, money will try to find its way back in. Since we cannot totally eliminate the role of money in politics, we have to be creative in diminishing the influence that wealthy donors and corporations have on campaigns.
The simplest way to do this is to provide Americans with vouchers they can donate to political campaigns. Every American should get $100 a year to give to candidates in federal, state, or local races; use it or lose it. These Democracy Dollars would, by the sheer volume of the US population, drown out the influence of mega-donors.
A candidate who runs their campaign on Democracy Dollars will have no debts to pay to special interests when they take office. They can act primarily in the interest of the people they represent instead of appeasing wealthy donors and corporations.
As President, I will…
Provide every American voter with $100 Democracy Dollars for each election cycle, a voucher that they can use to support candidates of their choosing:
This amounts to $23+ billion nationwide per election, allowing the will of the people to out-fund the $6.5 billion spent on federal races in 2016, $1.6 billion of which was Dark Money.
Ending Partisan Gerrymandering
Partisan gerrymandering has plagued our nation for generations, and is a threat to the very basis of our democracy. By manipulating district lines to separate different voting blocks, parties are able to maintain control of state legislatures, even when a large majority of the state supports the other party.
We need to put control of our democracy back in the hands of the people, and we need our politicians to reflect the will of the constituencies they represent. If we don’t remove the politics from the drawing of district maps for voting purposes, we’ll continue to have representative bodies that don’t actually represent the population and promote the agenda of a smaller and smaller proportion of the population.
We must move to a system that draws district lines independently, without the input of politically motivated actors. This is essential in ensuring that minority parties don’t hold onto power by changing the rules of the game.
As President, I will:
Promote the use of the efficiency gap to measure partisan gerrymandering when evaluating and drawing district maps.
Promote the use of independent redistricting commissions (a nonpartisan, supermajority commission, similar to California’s).
Appoint Supreme Court justices who support the use of sociological tools such as the efficiency gap to help end partisan gerrymandering.
 
These voter access policies are a no-brainer and necessary to advance our democracy. Let’s get it done America.
The treatment of the Uighurs in China is unacceptable, and we need to be a part of the chorus of voices across the world calling the situation out for what it is. It’s also troubling to see China take a more aggressive stance throughout the region, whether towards Hong Kong, Taiwan, or in the South China Sea.
More on:
Elections and Voting
Election 2020
China obviously has great ambition, and their system of government is becoming increasingly authoritarian as they develop more technologies that allow them to monitor and control their population. It’s important that we work with our allies to combat the spread of this authoritarian capitalism, and provide a model for democratic capitalism.
By providing a model and engaging in international work to help developing nations, we can show the world a better way to engage in governing their nations. We should help developing nations to liberalize, and work with them to diversify their economies. Trade and exporting US technologies to these countries can help us build alliances throughout the world as more countries modernize and liberalize.
We need to make sure China isn’t stealing our IP or exporting their authoritarianism to other countries, and we must ensure that we have reliable access to rare earth metals. But the current trade war is just hurting both sides. An ascendant China isn’t a direct threat to the United States, as long as we are strong at home and project that confidence to developing nations, to show them a superior path to the one China is offering.
2. Would you rejoin the 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA)? What changes to the existing agreement, if any, would you require before agreeing to rejoin the accord?
Iran is a destabilizing force in the region, and the JCPOA gave us both short-term victories in stabilizing the region through minimizing their influence, and inroads to further discussion to find a solution that would work over a longer period. Leaving the JCPOA was a massive strategic mistake, and one that only served to increase the likelihood of armed conflict in the country. The American people have no desire for armed conflict with Iran, which would lead to another multi-decade engagement that would spread throughout the region and have no clear benefit for the American people.
We need to work with our allies that are still party to the agreement to negotiate a new JCPOA, with longer terms and delayed deadlines to reflect the time wasted with Trump and Bolton’s posturing. We need to get Iran back in compliance with the limitations placed on them under the agreement on nuclear materials and enrichment capabilities.
Then, we need to build on the agreement to get Iran to stop destabilizing the region, attacking our allies, funding terrorist organizations, and causing conflict in the Strait of Hormuz.
3. Would you sign an agreement with North Korea that entailed partial sanctions relief in exchange for some dismantling of its nuclear weapons program but not full denuclearization? 
Yes. You can’t find solutions to problems if you’re not willing to talk. I would engage with North Korea without preconditions in order to find a path towards complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization. We can’t leave any options off the table, and we need to accept incremental gains in order to reach our eventual goal.
4. What, if any, steps would you take to counter Russian aggression against Ukraine?
Russian aggression in Ukraine is a blatant violation of international law, and we have the obligation to work with our allies to act. We need to echo the chorus of our allies in stating that Russia must return to its borders, and we won’t recognize any expansion they have into neighboring territories. Russian aggression is a destabilizing force, and we must work with our allies to project a strong and unified face against Russian expansionism.
Even though Ukraine is not a NATO member, that relationship is an important one, and I’d work with our NATO allies to reaffirm and expand our security coordination with Ukraine. It was encouraging to hear Pres. Zelensky’s words during his visit to NATO headquarters.
Helping Ukraine will also help us prepare for Russian aggression. The Russian interference in Ukrainian elections was a precursor to their interference in US elections. By helping neighboring states to Russia defend themselves, we’re also learning how to defend ourselves.
Finally, we need to expand sanctions against Russia, and Putin and members of his government specifically through the Global Magnitsky Act, in order to pressure the country to play by international rules.
5. Would you commit to the full withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan by the end of your first term, or would you require certain conditions be met before doing so?
America has been in a constant state of war for over 18 years. We have people who can vote in elections who have known nothing but war. We need to do everything in our power to end our current conflicts and prevent ourselves from getting embroiled in future open-ended conflicts with no clear benefit to the US. That’s why I’ve signed the pledge to End the Forever Wars. The US people are sick of paying trillions of dollars and seeing thousands die without feeling any safer.
We need to get our combat troops out of Afghanistan. By utilizing our diplomatic options, we can bring our troops home during my first term.
However, we have to continue our involvement in order to ensure that the rights of individuals - in particular, women and young girls - are protected, and that terrorist organizations can’t reform and organize within the borders. We can do this through helping the country to diversify its economy and maintaining diplomatic ties.
6. Given the assassination of Jamal Khashoggi and Saudi Arabia’s involvement in the civil war in Yemen, what changes, if any, would you make to U.S. policy toward Saudi Arabia?
First off, the United States should be providing no aid to Saudi Arabia in its assault on Yemen. It’s creating a humanitarian crisis that ranks amongst the worst of all time. We should end all support for this situation - logistics, arms sales, refueling efforts, intelligence.
The United States must take action against Saudi Arabia given the assassination of Jamal Khashoggi. That violent and illegal action against someone living in the United States must not go unanswered. It also hints at the larger conflict of values between our two countries. While we must be pragmatic in our foreign policy in recognizing that we will often have to deal with countries that have bad values, we should also be sure to always let our values lead us. A reset of the relationship with Saudi Arabia under this understanding would prevent us from getting involved in another conflict like the one in Yemen by centering our diplomacy around our values and ideals.
7. Do you support a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and, if so, how would you go about trying to achieve it?
The only acceptable end to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict involves a two-state solution that allows both the Israeli and Palestinian people to have sovereign land and self-determination.
Israel has been an important ally to the US, and it will continue to be an important ally. It is a democracy in a region where that is rare. I disagree with some of the policies of the current Israeli administration, but I believe the relationship is fundamentally strong and will continue to be.
I don’t want to prescribe the specifics of a two-state solution, as the Israeli and Palestinian people both need to be leading any conversation, and I look forward to engaging with all stakeholders to come up with confidence-building measures, such as a ceasefire and an end to the expansion of settlements, as we look towards building a sustainable peace. Coming together to provide aid to those suffering in Gaza can also be an opportunity for all parties to work together to handle a humanitarian crisis that is causing untold suffering.
The US should also restore our USAID programs for Palestinians that have been ended by this administration.
8. What, if any, additional steps should the United States take to remove Nicolás Maduro from power in Venezuela?
The United States must promote free and fair elections in Venezuela to determine their next leader. The most recent elections were obviously marred by fraud, intimidation, and voter suppression.
While Maduro’s actions of undermining democracy are inexcusable, we should not get embroiled in military action to remove him from power. The United States must push with our allies for Maduro to step down, through diplomacy, and through sanctions targeted at Maduro and his supporters. We must also work with Guaido, and with him consider amnesty for some of Maduro’s military support to entice them to support Guaido as President of the National Assembly and interim President.
We should continue to support the Venezuelan people with humanitarian aid, and also assist our regional allies in dealing with the crisis of the massive number of refugees. And we should signal that we will provide aid to Venezuela after a transition to a new and democratically elected government.
9. By 2050, Africa will account for 25 percent of the world’s population according to projections by the United Nations. What are the implications of this demographic change for the United States, and how should we adjust our policies to anticipate them?
Africa’s youth population is driving the adoption of new technologies at awesome speeds. Cell phones are now prevalent on a continent where wired phones never took hold. Adopting renewable energy now will allow Africa to avoid the shortfalls that come from having a centralized grid.
The United States should serve as a partner to the African nations. We should be driven by the motto “African solutions for African problems.” We should facilitate American entrepreneurs to partner with African entrepreneurs in technology - especially energy, agriculture, civil society, and beyond. We need to ensure that the African nations view the United States as an ally and model. We can also learn a lot from the continent, as they’re adopting technologies that aren’t in widespread use in the US and we can see their impact and push to adopt the ones that have the largest benefits.
We also must recognize that China is heavily investing in African infrastructure and technology, oftentimes exploiting natural resources with no tangible benefit for the local communities. We need to outcompete China in technological advancement, economic growth, and in the establishment of sustainable social and environmental practices. We need to restructure our trade agreements to offer attractive investment opportunity and to expand markets: by going beyond manufacturing and goods to include services, intellectual property, fair labor practices, and sustainable environment standards.
10. Under what circumstances, if any, would you support the United States joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), formerly the Trans-Pacific Partnership?
Trade deals have inarguably hurt a large number of Americans. By outsourcing American jobs - particularly manufacturing jobs to China - we’ve devastated communities and placed large amounts of financial stress on families.
However, studies show that only 20% of manufacturing job loss is due to trade with China. The other 80% can be attributed to automation. While we need to take steps to ensure that our trade deals work for all Americans, automation is the bigger threat.
I would reenter the TPP in conjunction with policies to ensure the benefits are widely shared, like a VAT, border-adjustment tax, and the Freedom Dividend, a universal basic income of $1,000/month for all American adults.
We need to increase our influence and alliances across the Pacific, so I believe we need to either enter the TPP, or negotiate a similar deal to combat the rising influence of China in the region. We should take this opportunity to renegotiate labor and environmental standards, and intellectual property and data protection, specifically in the tech sector.
11. How would you discourage the proliferation of coal-fired power plants in developing countries?
The first step to any action on climate change is to rejoin the Paris Accords so that we have the moral authority and allies in order to fight the existential threat that is climate change.
In order to combat the development of fossil fuel power expanding to developing countries, we have to provide a viable alternative. China is currently using its Belt and Road Initiative to invest in projects in developing nations to create economic and cultural bonds between their countries; we have to provide a cleaner and more democratic alternative.
Climate change, while a threat, is also a massive opportunity for the United States to regain its position as an innovator while relocating the energy sector within our borders. By providing grants, investments, and tax incentives, we can develop clean energy and carbon capture technologies, and then help the rest of the world get their energy from clean, American-made sources. The whole world should be using US solar panels, turbines, and other renewable technologies.
By engaging in this work, we can not only make the world cleaner and more sustainable, but we can develop relationships with developing countries and push them towards a more democratic future.
12. What has been the greatest foreign policy accomplishment of the United States since World War II? What has been the biggest mistake?
Global economic development has been our greatest foreign policy accomplishment. This success started with the Marshall Plan, providing billions in economic aid to rehabilitate European economies regardless of which side of the war the countries fought on. This initiative resulted in the promotion of free trade, modern technologies, the spread of democracy, and stronger allies to partner with the US in our global initiatives. We have continued to promote sustainable economic development across the globe by working closing with and empowering international development organizations like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. When our global initiatives promote open markets, in turn, we promote freedom everywhere.
The biggest mistake was not investing in and becoming a global leader in renewable energy technology. Climate change is a destabilizing force in a world that could use more stability. A lot of our primary antagonists have economies based largely on oil exports, and the sale of oil has also been used to fund terrorism. Infrastructure programs focusing on energy generation have allowed other countries - especially China - to form relationships with countries, often by exporting dirty energy technology. If the United States had invested heavily in renewables over the past few decades and engaged in an aggressive policy of exporting it to the rest of the world, particularly developing nations, we could have slowed or reversed climate change, cut off a funding source for regimes that we’ve ended up fighting wars with, and made it much harder for terrorist organizations to fund themselves.